Sebes, Joseph; Pereira Thomas (1961) (på eng). The Jesuits and the Sino-Russian treaty of Nerchinsk (1689): the diary of Thomas Pereira. Bibliotheca Instituti historici S. I., 99-0105377-3 ; 18. Rome. Libris 677492
He was a economics graduate from Elphinstone College, Mumbai. He was an industrialist in plastics business. He served as a president of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry in 1990s.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 20,277 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 74.59 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 5612.
Besemer, S., Van der Geest, V., Murray, J., Bijleveld, C. C. J. H. and Farrington, D. P. (2011) The relationship between parental imprisonment and offspring offending in England and the Netherlands. British Journal of Criminology, 51, 413-437.
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Handbook on procedures and criteria for determining refugee status - under the 1951 convention and the 1967 protocol relating to the status of refugees, Geneva: Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 1992 (orig. 1988)
Rendsburg-Eckernförde (Dens: Rendsborg-Egernførde) is a destrict in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It is boondit bi (frae the east an clockwise) the ceety o Kiel, the destrict o Plön, the ceety o Neumünster, the destricts o Segeberg, Steinburg, Dithmarschen an Schleswig-Flensburg, an the Easter Seas.
Appendicitis can be classified into two types, typical and atypical. The pain of typical acute appendicitis usually starts centrally (periumbilical) before localising to the right iliac fossa (the lower right side of the abdomen). There is usually associated loss of appetite (anorexia) and fever. Nausea, or vomiting may or may not occur. These classic signs and symptoms are more likely in younger patients. Older patients (beyond their teenage years) may present with only one or two. Diagnosis is easier in typical acute appendicitis and surgery removes a swollen appendix with little or no suppuration (pus) if operated early (within 24 hours of onset).
In 1978 Johnson was awarded an American Institute of Architects Gold Medal. In 1979 he became the first recipient of the Pritzker Architecture Prize the most prestigious international architectural award.
The main dountoun shoppin aurie is atween Yukgeori (육거리) an Ogeori (오거리) which translate tae 6-wey intersection an 5-wey intersection. The streamlet boardwalk shoppin aurie opens an ends wi Pohang Station an Yukgeori, respectively. This shoppin aurie haes several stores, restaurants, and a few bars including Converse, Shoemarker, Skin Food, ABC Mart, Redface, The North Face, a cinema, Starbucks, Mr. Pizza, Whistler Bar, Beethoven Bar, Mindy's Bar, an etc.
Bussy-Saint-Georges has built its identity on a green model environment with parks and gardens. They represent 155 hectares of integrated green spaces, 9 kilometres (6 miles) of soft connecting links, 10 squares and parks in the city centre, 8 pools and more than 8,200 trees today.
National anthems are usually written in the most common language of the state, whether de facto or official. States with multiple national languages may offer several versions of their anthem. For instance, Switzerland's national anthem has different lyrics for each of the country's four official languages: French, German, Italian, and Romansh. The New Zealand national anthem is commonly now sung with the first verse in Māori ("Aotearoa") and the second in English ("God Defend New Zealand"). The tune is the same but the lyrics have different meanings. South Africa's national anthem is unique in that five of the eleven official languages are used in the same anthem, in which each language comprises a stanza.
The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index, an aa cried the FTSE 100 Index, FTSE 100, FTSE, or, informally, the "Footsie", is a share index o the 100 companies leetit on the Lunnon Stock Exchynge wi the heichest mercat caipitalisation.
Lock, Helen. 1993. "A Man's Story Is His Gris-gris": Ishmael Reed's Neo-HooDoo Aesthetic and the African-American Tradition. South Central Review 10(1): 67–77. JSTOR 3190283.
These characteristics have consequences for the grip with which the pen is held. First, one tends to bear down on a ballpoint to get a stronger line, and this increases tension in the hand. One way of getting a stronger line, comparable in intensity to a rollerball line, is to use a broad line ballpoint, with a 1.2mm diameter, or greater, ball size. Most ballpoints have a thin or medium ball.
Manicaragua is a municipality an ceety in the Villa Clara Province o Cuba. It is locatit in the soothren pairt o Villa Clara, borderin the provinces o Cienfuegos tae the wast an Sancti Spíritus tae the east.
The deestrict is situatit at the coast o the Easter Seas, roughly atween the ceeties o Schleswig an Kiel. A lairge portion o the Kiel Canal passes throu Rendsburg-Eckernförde.It is ane o the lairgest destricts in the whole o Germany.
The census o 2010 leets 459 populatit places, o which 90 haed a population o 10 or mair, an 38 o 100 or mair. Those o 500 or mair are leetit belaw:
Titsingh, I. (1822). Illustrations of Japan; consisting of Private Memoirs and Anecdotes of the reigning dynasty of The Djogouns, or Sovereigns of Japan. London: Ackerman.
M. Hamilton and W. R. Hackler (2007), "A Formal Universal Systems Semantics for SysML", 17th Annual International Symposium, INCOSE 2007, San Diego, CA, Jun. 2007.
The leid he wrate in wis Inglis; the dialogue o his chairacters is meant tae be read as Scots, but is written in an Inglis-like kin o wey for tae mak readin mair eith for Inglis readers. For example, Grassic Gibbon wad write braw as "brave", an siller as "silver".
Lawer Saxony (German: Niedersachsen [ˈniːdɐzaksən], Law German: Neddersassen) is a German state situatit in northwastren Germany an is seicont in aurie an fowert in population amang the saxteen states o Germany.
Minnesota's state parks are spread across the state in such a way that there is a state park within 50 miles (80 km) of every Minnesotan. The most recent park created is Lake Vermilion State Park, created in 2010. Currently the Parks range in size from Franz Jevne State Park with 118 acres (48 ha) to Saint Croix State Park with 34,037 acres (13,774 ha). Two parks include resources listed as National Natural Landmarks (Big Bog State Recreation Area and Itasca State Park) and six parks encompass National Historic Landmarks (Charles A. Lindbergh, Fort Snelling, Mille Lacs Kathio, St. Croix, Soudan Underground Mine, and Split Rock Lighthouse State Parks). 52 sites or districts across 34 Minnesota state parks are on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP), including 22 parks with developments constructed by New Deal-era job creation programs in the 1930s.
GNU Octave stands out as it treats incompatibility with MATLAB as a bug (see GNU Octave#Matlab), therefore it aims to provide a software clone.
^ Hwang SW et al, Direct activation of capsaicin receptors by products of lipoxygenases: Endogenous capsaicin-like substances. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA (2000).
Ra Sport Ground, Vaileka, Ra me ek ground hae. Ii ground me jaada kar ke soccer aur rugby khela jaawe hae. Isme ek ground soccer aur rugby ke khatir hae aur dui court hae jisme netball au voleyball khela jaae hae.
Two Dutchmen once got into a dispute about the English language, each one contended that he could command the best. They made a bet at length and appointed a judge to decide between them. They were to utter but one sentence each; accordingly they begun. 'Vell Chon,' said the first, 'dit it rain to-morrow !' 'I kess it vash,' said John. Wasn´t the judge in a quandary.
Nordahl Road is a station served by North County Transit District's SPRINTER light rail line. It straddles the city limits of San Marcos and Escondido, California, with its mailing address in Escondido. The station is located between Barham Drive and Auto Park Way/Nordahl Road, both of which intersect East Mission Road. It consists of a single platform and track.
Tra łe so' canson pì conosude, ricordemo Blessed, Candle in the Wind (dedicà daprima a Marilyn Monroe e pì 'vanti a Lady Diana Spencer), Circle of Life, Crocodile Rock, Daniel, The Last Song, Nikita, The One, Rocket Man, Sacrifice, Song for Guy, Sorry Seems to Be the Hardest Word, Step into Christmas, Your Song, ecc.
"Tatarstan" derives frae the name o the Tatar ethnic group an the Proto-Sanskrit suffix -stan (an endin common tae mony Central Asie kintras). Anither version o the Roushie name is "Тата́рия" (Tatariya), whilk wis offeecial alang wi "Tatar ASSR" unner the Soviet rule.
A talk by Takis Fotopoulos about the Internationalization of the Capitalist Market Economy and the project of Inclusive Democracy. A talk given by Takis Fotopoulos at the University of Vermont in 1996, followed by a discussion in which Murray Bookchin, Dan Chodorkoff and others take part. Video in 3 parts. Retrieved 4 January 2014.
Ta radio çheet er ym-skeaylley cowree rere moanaghey tonnyn lectro-vagnaidagh lesh menkidyn ta ny sloo na menkidyn sollysh fakinagh. Ta goulraght lectro-vagnaidagh troailtaghey liorish magheryn lectro-vagnaidagh leaystagh ta goll trooid yn aer as folmid feaynid. Ta fysseree ymmyrkit liorish ceaghley oardreilagh (moanaghey) jeh paart ennagh jeh ny tonnyn goulragh, lheid as skyoltys, menkid, ny paase. Traa ta tonnyn radio goll tessen leeideilagh lectragh, ta ny magheryn leaystagh indughtaghey streeu chirkinagh 'sy leeideilagh. Foddee eh dy ve cronnit as caghlaait dys feeam ny cowree elley ta ymmyrkey fysseree.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 45,811 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 66.01 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 5608.
Distribution of mercury in Gypsy Cortinarius caperatus mushrooms from several populations: an efficient accumulator species and estimated intake of element.
(en) Sonja Fagerberg-Diallo, « Milk and Honey: Developing Written Literature in Pulaar », in the Yearbook of Comparative and General Literature, 1995, n° 43, Indiana University
While running a campaign to elect his sister Sherry Martschink to Lieutenant Governor in 1990, Shealy, with the help of Robert Kohn, recruited unemployed black fisherman Benjamin Hunt, Jr. to run for Congress against Republican Arthur Ravenel, Jr. Shealy sought to increase the turnout of white voters by playing to the racial fears of the South Carolina electorate. He promised Hunt, who had a prior drug arrest, $900 to run for Congress and paid for his $2414 filing fee. Shealy paid for the fees with an unreported $5000 campaign contribution to his sister from Laidlaw Environmental Services.
Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.
Reynolds was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, where his father, a career military man, was stationed. He says he hails from nowhere, because the family moved so often. His family lived many places, including Germany, a farm in Indiana, an army base in Alaska, Kansas, and Missouri, where he lived longer than any other place until he was old enough to move away as an adult. Both parents were extremely devout Christians and he says he grew up with Christian music all around him. However, his older sister owned some albums from The Beatles, which he says, even as a very young child, he loved instantly, playing air guitar to their music.
Teddy Murray, computer hacker Mohamed Medhat Zohar Manna - fuzzy logic Max Levchin - Gausebeck-Lechin Test and PayPal James Martin - information engineering John Mashey Yuri Matiyasevich - solving Hilbert's tenth problem Yukihiro Matsumoto - Ruby (programming language) John McCarthy - Lisp (programming language), artificial intelligence Douglas McIlroy - pipes Kathleen R. McKeown - Natural Language Processing - Automatic Summarization Chris McKinstry - artificial intelligence, Mindpixel Marshall Kirk McKusick - BSD, Berkeley Fast File System Lambert Meertens - ALGOL 68, ABC (programming language) Bertrand Meyer - Eiffel (programming language) Silvio Micali - cryptography Robin Milner - ML (programming language) Marvin Minsky - artificial intelligence, perceptrons, Society of Mind Dr. Paul Mockapetris - Domain Name System (DNS) Cleve Moler - numerical analysis, MATLAB Edward F. Moore - Moore machine Gordon Moore - Moore's law J Strother Moore - string searching, ACL2 theorem prover Dr. Al Moskowitz - Rule-based system algorithm synthesis using nondeterministic finite-state machines. Hans Moravec Robert Tappan Morris - Morris worm Joel Moses - Macsyma Stephen Muggleton Debajyoti Mukhopadhyay - interoperability, web mining
G. Stone: Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, s. 213
She hoghtoo lettyr abbyrlhit ny Gaelgey ee hibbin (H, h), rere'n abbyrlhit Romanagh, as myr shen, hoghtoo lettyr ny abbyrlhittyn elley haink ass.
Ayyoubi, Kerim Rakhmanovich & Smirnova, Iraida Anatolʹevna / Ed. Yusupova, Zare Aliyevna (1998), The zaza dialect of the Kurdish Language (Dersim), Moscow: Center for Kurdish Studies.
Ideally, AC voltage is supplied by a utility as sinusoidal having an amplitude and frequency given by national standards (in the case of mains) or system specifications (in the case of a power feed not directly attached to the mains) with an impedance of zero ohms at all frequencies.
Pendaraban in binary is similar to its decimal counterpart. Two numbers A dan B can be multiplied by partial products: for each digit in B, the product of that digit in A is calculated dan written on a new line, shifted leftward so that its rightmost digit lines up with the digit in B that was used. The sum of all these partial products gives the final hasil.
Chikumi is a Zimbabwe name often given to Baby Boy and it is of Shona origin.The meaning of Chikumi in Shona is October, the tenth month, the small ten.
The province is situatit in the Bolivie lawlands an borders Obispo Santistevan Province in the Northwast, Sara Province in the Wast, Andrés Ibáñez Province in the Sooth, an Ñuflo de Chávez Province in the East.
Ekinnalinnya (epynom) simply means “ekigambo ekibbuddwa mu linnya ly’omuntu (a word formed from the name of a real or fictitious person). The Luganda concept for rainbow, “Kkala za Musoke” is an eponym and so are the days of the week in Luganda.
1640 is he Generalmajor worrn, in’n Januar 1645 Generalleutnant un an’n 1. Juni 1648 Feldmarschallleutnant. Feldmarschall is he denn an’n 14. April 1655 worrn.
Since the days of the Revolution, a one-room stone schoolhouse had stood on a grassy area known as the Common, located close to the present intersection of South Orange Avenue and Academy Street in Maplewood. In 1814, this building blocked the construction of a new toll highway from Newark to Morristown. The 73 "Proprietors and Associates" of the school met on August 3 of that year and resolved to erect a new school building near the site of the old one, naming seven Trustees to thereafter oversee the education of local children. The resolution reflected "the desire of the meeting that the said school should in the future have the name of Columbian School of South Orange."
Obreption and subreption (both from the Latin word repo/reptum (genitive), meaning to creep or crawl. The prefix, Ob- means "towards, against, or, in the way of"; Sub- means "under, or, close to") are terms used in ancient Roman law and in the canon law applied by the Catholic church to species of fraud by which an ecclesiastical rescript is obtained.
Li Direktion Bad Bremstedt is li Direktion por li fedaral states Schleswig-Holsteinia, Mecklenburg-Vorpommeria e li Nord e Ost Lago. Li Direktion have 7 Bundespolizeiinspektionen:
The boys' soccer team was coached by Gene Chyzowych, one of the most successful active scholastic soccer coaches in the nation. The 2007 boys' soccer team won the North II, Group IV state sectional championship with a 1−0 win over Westfield High School in the tournament final.
Members o the rhinoceros faimily are characterized bi thair lairge size (thay are some o the lairgest remainin megafauna, wi aw o the species able tae reach ane tonne or mair in wicht); as well as bi an herbivorous diet; a thick pertective skin, 1.5–5 cm thick, furmed frae layers o collagen poseetioned in a lattice structur; relatively smaa brains for mammals this size (400–600 g); an a lairge horn. Thay generally eat leafy material, altho thair ability tae ferment fuid in thair hindgut allaes them tae subsist on mair fibrous plant matter, if necessary. Unlik ither perissodactyls, the twa African species o rhinoceros lack teeth at the front o thair muiths, relyin instead on thair pouerfu premolar an molar teeth tae grind up plant fuid.
List of searchable databases produced by Colorado state agencies hosted by the American Library Association Government Documents Roundtable.
Aberllefenni is a village in the south of Gwynedd, Wales. It lies in the historic county of Merionethshire/Sir Feirionnydd, in the valley of the Afon Dulas.
John Clifton, Calvin Tiessen, Gabriela Deckinga, Laura Lucht. Sociolinguistic Situation of the Talysh in Azerbaijan. SIL International, 2005
Trinidad and Tobago, United Kingdom se 31 August 1962 ke ajaad bhaes. Abhi ke President, Anthony Carmona aur Prime Minister, Keith Rowley hae.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). "Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist.". Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
Cornus canadensis (Canadian dwarf cornel, Canadian bunchberry, quatre-temps, crackerberry, creeping dogwood) is a species of flowering plant in the Cornaceae (dogwood) family, native to eastern Asia (Japan, Korea, northeastern China (Jilin Province) and the Russian Far East), the northern United States, Colorado, New Mexico, Canada and Greenland. Unlike its relatives, which are for the most part substantial trees and shrubs, C. canadensis is a creeping, rhizomatous perennial growing to about 20 cm (8 in) tall.
Dübs & Co. wis a locomotive warks in Glesga, Scotland, foondit bi Henry Dübs in 1863 an based at the Queens Park Works in Polmadie. In 1903 it becam pairt o the North British Locomotive Company.
The Chicago Bears are a professional American fitbaa team based in Chicago, Illinois. Thay are members o the North Division o the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Bears hae wan nine (9) NFL Championships (aicht pre-merger, an ane Super Bowl). The Bears hauld the NFL record for the maist enshrinees in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, wi 27 members, an the maist retired jersey numbers (14). The Bears hae an aa recordit mair regular saison an oweraw victories nor ony ither NFL franchise. The franchise recordit its 700t win on November 18, 2010.
Don't forget that if one objects, his account will be blocked ; Meta allows only approval, and trespassers will be prosecuted : Meta is and knows. Szkoda, że nie ma nikogo tutaj ; nie ma nic do czego. --Budelberger 03:53, 23 февраля 2009 (UTC) ().
The obalst' borders the Bryansk Oblast (Roushie) on the northeast, the Kursk Oblast (Roushie) on the east, the Poltava on the soothwast, the Kharkiv Oblasts on the sooth, an the Chernihiv Oblast on the wast.
German kayaker Birgit Fischer wins gold in the K-4 500 m and silver in the K-2 500 m. In so doing, she became the first woman in any sport to win gold medals at 6 different Olympics, the first woman to win gold 24 years apart and the first person in Olympic history to win two or more medals in five different Games.
2002 - The UN Security Council unanimously establishes an arms embargo and the freezing of assets of Osama bin Laden, Al-Qaida, and the remaining members of the Taliban.
1999 me uu politics join karis aur 1999 aur 2001 me election jiitis. Parliament me uu Public Accounts, Foreign Relations aur Economic Services committee ke member rahaa. Uu 2001 se National Farmers Union ke General treasurer rahaa.
Ingredients 2 cup Split lentils 6 cup Water 2 cup Red onion, chopped 2 cup Oil or butter 1 tbl Ginger 1 tsp Garlic 4 x Hot green peppers 1/4 tsp Black pepper Salt, to taste
Therefore, Bungeni village, as it is known today, is of relatively recent origin. Hosi Bungeni and his subjects arrived here between 1819 and 1820 from Mozambique during the wars of Soshangane, also known as Manukosi and became the Paramount chief of Tsonga refugees in the Spelenkon (Xipilongo in Xitsonga), Hosi Bungeni exercised Authority over all Tsonga refugees who were fleeing the brutal formation of the Gaza Kingdom by Soshangane in Southern Mozambique, the natural home of the Tsonga people. As Paramount Chief, Hosi Bungeni was responsible for the allocation of land to the Tsonga refugees, the provision of military protection, provision of food, as well as exercising authority over all these refugees.
Annotated video recipe illustrates traditional hand-made technique for creating Soan Papdi's crisp multi-layers (filmed at Shreya's Sweets Hampankatta, Mangalore); ·Permaculturetravel· YouTube Channel
Karlsborg Municipality (Karlsborgs kommun) is a municipality in Västra Götaland Coonty in wastren Swaden. Its seat is locatit in the toun o Karlsborg.
Nocaima (Spaingie pronunciation: [noˈkaima]) is a municipality an toun o Colombie in the depairtment o Cundinamarca. It is the auldest dounset in Colombie, an tharefore o historical significance. Foondit on 8 Juin in 1605, it sits in the hills o the Andes, aboot 60 km ootside Bogota, the current Caipital o Colombie.
Greek sprinters Konstantinos Kenteris and Ekaterini Thanou withdraw from the games after allegedly staging a motorcycle accident in order to avoid a drug test.
1861 - Americanisc Ingefeoht: US President Abraham Lincoln appoints George McClellan as commander of the Union Army, replacing the aged General Winfield Scott.
The European Convention on Human Rights (1950; Europe) was adopted under the auspices of the Council of Europe to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Reynolds has a son Josef, born in February 1982 with his wife, Linna. In 1995, he and girlfriend Diane Thomas had a daughter, Eura. They resided in New Mexico with her son Jostin Bileyu. In 2008, Thomas moved with their children to North Carolina. Tim followed, to be near his daughter Eura. He currently resides in North Carolina, after living for 17 years in Virginia and several years in New Mexico. On August 1st 2017 Reynolds married Kristin Nienkirchen in Turks and Caicos.
The other, more probable account, starts in 1604, when Schyrleus is born in Reutte, Austria. After joining the Augustine order in 1622, he is sent to the university at Ingolstadt, where he probably follows courses in astronomy and learns how to grind lenses. Following his graduation he does not return to his convent but enters the Capuchin order, which sends him to Linz in 1636 where he is to teach philosophy. Here, he comes in the service of Kurfürst Philipp Christoph von Sötern, the archbishop of Trier and Speyer, who is held captive by the emperor, Ferdinand III. The archbishop sends him on a mission to negotiate with Pope Urban VIII. The emperor however, seeing this diplomatic activity as a form of spying, bans Schyrleus from his lands in 1641.[2] From here on, both accounts of Schyrleus' life come together.
There was a reaction to these changes. Complaints arose over so-called "fads and frills"-inessentials said to be leading to the neglect of reading, writing, spelling and arithmetic. New York papers read by local commuters campaigned for a return to the efficiency of the "little old red schoolhouse." But the changes were here to stay.
Bhai Log - All About Nation ek 2011 mein bana Urdu film hain. Yea film Pakistan mein Syed Faisal Bukhari ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Shamoon Abbasi, Baber Ali, Shehzad Ali, Nadeem Baig acting kiye the.
Stotranchem Pustok / Psalms 121 : 6 - Disachem tuka vot lagchem na ani ratchem tujer chan’nem poddchem na! / By day the sun will not strike you, nor the moon by night.
His book 1421: The Year China Discovered the World, is a work of sheer fiction presented as revisionist history. Not a single document or artifact has been found to support his new claims on the supposed Ming naval expeditions beyond Africa...Menzies' numerous claims and the hundreds of pieces of "evidence" he has assembled have been thoroughly and entirely discredited by historians, maritime experts and oceanographers from China, the U.S., Europe and elsewhere.
MacShamhrain, A.S. "The 'unity' of Cóemgen and Ciarán. A convent between Glendalough and Clonmacnoise in the tenth to eleventh centuries." In Wicklow: history and society: interdisciplinary essays on the history of an Irish county, ed. by Ken Hannigan and William Nolan. Dublini: Geography Publications, 1994. 139-50. (Anglice)
Steve Tasker serves as the sideline reporter for Monday Night Football. John Dockery served as sideline reporter from 1999 to 2007. From 2008-2012, there was no official sideine reporter for Monday Night Football.
Boud'dh kallant him lenni tanchi tirthosthanam zal'lim. Fuddem boud'dh dhormachea rhasa uprant hea tholachem mhotv unnem zalem. Thoim yeup- vochop konnuch korina zalo. Taka lagun thoim ran matlem ani tatunt rantti saudamni vosti keli. I. So. 1821 meren hi suvat lekank khobor naxil'li. Fuddem sor jems olekzhanddor hannem vhodda dhaddsan ranant proves korun him lenni oksmat namnek haddlim.
The first entity tae uise the Italian tricolour wis the Repubblica Cispadana (Cispadane Republic) in 1797, efter Napoleon's victorious airmy crossed Italy. Durin this time mony sma republics o Jacobin inspiration supplantit the auncient absolute states an amaist aw, wi variants o colour, uised banners characterised bi three baunds o equal size, clearly inspired bi the French model o 1790. The colours chosen bi the Republic wur reid an white, the colours o the banner o Milan, an green, which wis the colour o the uniform o the Milanese civic guard.
Norwegian Pedophile Group (NAFP). It arrivat esser inscrit in li national federation de homosexual associationes. Pos esser expulsat it devenit clandestine.
"West Coast Reggae Group Stick Figure Debuts First-Ever Music Video for 'Fire on the Horizon' Track: Exclusive Premiere". Billboard. November 10, 2015.
After a few months Hearst provided information, not on oath (sworn testimony could have been used to convict her) of SLA activities to the authorities. A bomb exploded at Hearst Castle in February. After Hearst testified that Wolfe had raped her, Emily Harris gave a magazine interview from prison alleging Hearst retaining a trinket given to her by Wolfe was an indication that she had been in a romantic relationship with him. Hearst said she had kept the stone carving because it seemed to be a pre Columbian artifact of archeological significance. Harris's interpretation was used by the prosecutor James L. Browning Jr., and some jurors later said they regarded the carving, which Browning waved in front of them, as powerful evidence that Hearst was lying.
Decisions on the content and editorial processes of Wikipedia are made largely through consensus decision-making and, occasionally, by voting; Jimmy Wales and the Wikimedia Foundation retain final judgement. Wikipedia has several policies and guidelines, also developed through consensus, that guide activity on the project, covering behavioural, content-related and legal issues. One of the most important states that articles must be written from a "neutral point of view", presenting all noteworthy perspectives on an issue along with the evidence supporting them — thus, rather than aspiring to determine the objective truth of their subjects, articles attempt to describe them impartially from all significant viewpoints. Individual edits that contain libelous statements, copyright violations, and other content that could incur legal liability or be otherwise detrimental to Wikipedia are permanently hidden from view using a process called "Oversight".
Bwa tabi Bwaba (lọ́pọ̀) je eya kan ni arin ile The places left unconquered were raided by the Bamana, which led to a weakening of the Bwa social and political systems. Burkina Faso ati Mali. Iye àwon ènìyàn eya yi je je 300,000 lapapo.
Anatomy in the १६th century studies and digitized texts by the BIUM (Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de médecine et d'odontologie, Paris) see its digital library Medic@.
Smollett, Tobias George (1758). A complete history of England, from the descent of Julius Caesar, to the Treaty of Aix la Chapelle, 1748. J. Rivington.
Banská Štiavnica ( pronunciation ; German: Schemnitz, Hungarian: Selmecbánya - eften the short form is uised: Selmec) is a toun in central Slovakie, in the middle o an immense caldera creatit bi the collapse o an ancient volcano.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 35,589 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 246.35 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 7110.
Grattan, J. H. C. et C. Singer. 1952. Anglo-Saxon Magic and Medicine Illustrated Specially from the Semi-Pagan Text 'Lacnunga', Publications of the Wellcome Historical Medical Museum, new series 3 (Londinii: Oxford University Press). Editio imperfecta
BIERHORST, John. A Nahuatl-English dictionary and concordance to the Cantares . Stanford University Press, 1985. (Inglatlahtōlli - Nāhuatlahtōlli)
In 1976, CBS' regular season ratings earned an abysmal (by the standards of the time) 26 share on Sunday afternoons. In 1978, the deciding game of the NBA Finals ranked 442nd out of 730 shows from September 1, 1977 to August 31, 1978. The next highest-rated playoff game in prime time only ranked 619th.
1945, A History of Western Philosophy and Its Connection with Political and Social Circumstances from the Earliest Times to the Present Day, New York: Simon and Schuster.
Ashoka Maurya (IAST: Aśoka; /əˈʃoʊkə/; 304–232 BCE), commonly kent as Ashoka and Ashoka the Great, wis an Indian emperor o the Maurya Dynasty who ruled almaist aw o the Indian subcontinent frae c. 269 to 232 BCE.
The Sepang F1 Internaitional Circuit is the hame o the Malaysian Grand Prix which is the Malaysian leg o the Formula Ane race an the Malaysian Motorcycle Grand Prix.
Marija Gimbutas, Shan Winn, Daniel Shimabuku, 1989. "Achilleion: a Neolithic settlement in Thessaly, Greece, 6400-5600 B.C." Los Angeles: Institute of Archaeology, University of California, Los Angeles. Monumenta archaeologica 14.
The Wikimedia Foundation applied to the United States Patent and Trademark Office to trademark Wikipedia® on 17 Septemba 2004. The mark was granted registration status on 10 Jenụwarị 2006. Trademark protection was accorded by Japan on 16 Disemba 2004 and in the European Union on 20 Jenụwarị 2005. Technically a service mark, the scope of the mark is for: "Provision of information in the field of general encyclopedic knowledge via the Internet". There are plans to license the usage of the Wikipedia trademark for some products, such as books or DVDs.
We're now getting ready to bring Notifications to almost all other Wikimedia sites, and are aiming for a 22 October deployment, as outlined in this release plan. It is important that notifications is translated for all of the languages we serve.
She lus lussagh t'ayn, wheesh as 45cm er yrjid. Ta duillagyn duillageenagh echey, as oirr saue-eeacklagh oc. T'ad foltagh. Ta blaaghyn buighey-glassey echey ayns dhossan blaaghey. Ta ny duillagyn foltagh çhaglym druight ny fliaghey dy mie, ta cur eiyrtys taitnyssagh gloasagh orroo, as shen bun yn ennym cadjin oc.
Berdan, Frances F., Richard E. Blanton, Elizabeth H. Boone, Mary G. Hodge, Michael E. Smith and Emily Umberger (۱۹۹۶) Aztec Imperial Strategies. Dumbarton Oaks, Washington, DC.
Lewis, David. 1976. A Return Voyage Between Puluwat and Saipan Using Micronesian Navigational Techniques. In Ben R. Finney (1963), Pacific Navigation and Voyaging. The Polynesian Society.
The film introduces a romance involving Wyatt Earp and a fictional character (based on Lottie Deno) which played no factor in the actual gunfight nor did anything to advance the film's plot.
Lviv is ane o the lairgest ceeties in Ukraine an is growin rapidly. Accordin tae the Meenistry o Economy o Ukraine the average salary in the Lviv Oblast is a little less than the average for Ukraine which in December 2007 wis aboot 1616 UAH. In 2006 Ukraine's economic freedom wis ratit at 3.24 (whaur a ratin 1.0 is "freer" than a ratin 5.0). Accordin tae the World Bank classification Lviv is a lawer middle-income ceety. There are mony restaurants an shops as well as street vendors o fuid, books, clothes, traditional cultural items an tourist gifts. Bankin an money tradin are an important pairt o the economy o Lviv wi mony banks an exchynge offices throughoot the ceety.
Military strength is a term that describes a quantification or reference to a nation's standing military forces or the capacity for fulfillment of that military's role. For example, the military strength of a given country could be interpreted as the number of individuals in its armed forces, the destructive potential of its arsenal, or both. For example, while China and India maintain the largest armed forces in the world, the U.S. Military is considered to be one of the world's strongest, although the certainty of such a claim cannot be ascertained without a detailed analysis of opposing military forces in relation to one another as well as taking into account the field(s) of battle and tactics used in such a conflict. The UK and in some regards Israel have also been described as the best trained and operating militaries in the world.
R. S. Cohen, "Discontented Categories: Hinayana and Mahayana in Indian History", Journal of the American Academy of Religion, 63(1):1-25, 1995
Ina kimischri ah manifakchrin, ilekchalisis a wah tekniik we yuuz direk ilekchik korant (DC) fi jraib wah adawaiz nan-spantienos kimikal riakshan.
We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use {{#property:chief executive officer}} instead of {{#property:p169}}. The complete plan for this is here.
In the end that day, Dr Julião Menezes was released and Dr Lohia was driven outside of Goa and released. Their arrest at this demonstration motivated people to hold large-scale protests in support of the independence movement, which resulted in large-scale arrests and the incarceration of over 1,500 people. Goan leaders, including Bragança Cunha, Purushottam Kakodkar and Laxmikant Bhembre were deported to Portugal for their participation in the independence protests.
In February 2013, IDW Publishing announced a partnership with Cartoon Network to produce comic books and issues based on its properties. Generator Rex along with Ben 10 was one of the titles announced to be published.
With the national team, he played in the 1974 World Cup qualifiers in Australia, where Iraq finished second behind the hosts, the 1972 and 1976 Asian Cups in Thailand and Iran, and in the Olympic qualifiers in 1968 and 1972. Douglas was also an important part of the Iraqi army team that won the 1972 and 1977 CISM World Military Championship.
Etymologically, the Luganda concept entabagutonde connotes “interaction”, interactions between animate and inanimate as well as between animate to animate components of nature on Earth.
Follaein a referendum on devolution proposals in 1997, the Scotland Act 1998 wis passt bi the Unitit Kinrick Pairlament for til estaiblish a devolv'd Scots Pairlament.
Elamite grammar, glossary, and a very comprehensive text corpus (in Spanish), by Enrique Quintana (in some respects, the author's views deviate from those generally accepted in the field)
In 1990, he came in the contact of Shankersinh Vaghela. He contested 1995 Gujarat assembly election on candidature of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). BJP won majority and formed government headed by Keshubhai Patel. In 1996, when Vaghela revolted and split BJP and formed Rashtriya Janata Party (RJP), he joined it. RJP formed minority government with support of Indian National Congress (INC) and Vaghela took oath as a Chief Minister. A year later lNC threatened to withdrew its support on 20 October 1997. A week later the compromise was reached as a change of Chief Minister. Vaghela stepped down and Dilip Parikh sworn in as a Chief Minister by governor Krishnapal Singh in 1997.
Former Deathwish professional Antwuan Dixon was imprisoned in mid-2013 and stated in a July 2014 Thrasher magazine interview—conducted by Reynolds and Ellington—that he was scheduled to be released on August 23, 2014. Dixon also explained that he may be released earlier:
Anns an Centre-Val de Loire, tha sia sgìrean no dèpartements. Am broinn sin, tha 185 paraistean no cantons agus 1,842 bailtean no communes thairis air 39 151 km2:
The Pasteur Foundation - A US nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting the mission of the Institut Pasteur in Paris. Full archive of newsletters available online containing examples of US Tributes to Louis Pasteur.
Ny yei shen, eer lurg da ny aachummaghyn shoh, va'n Lhiass-chiannoort ny heaghtyr Hinvaal, va ram currymyn kiannoortagh echey (goaill stiagh fir argidoil), as va cair jeih-aighney echey er ymmodee enmyssyn.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). "Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist.". Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
Ponferrada (Spaingie pronunciation: [pomfeˈraða], frae the Laitin Pons Ferrata, Airn Brig) is the caipital ceety o El Bierzo in the Province o León, Spain.
Horvath, Agnes, Bjørn Thomassen, et H. Wydra, H. 2009. Introduction: Liminality and Cultures of Change. International Political Anthropology 2(1):3-4.
The Wikimedia Foundation is planning to do limited testing of IPv6 on June 2-3. If there are not too many problems, we may fully enable IPv6 on World IPv6 day (June 6), and keep it enabled.
Nangal Jiwan is a village in Nakodar in Jalandhar district of Punjab State, India. It is located 5.5 kilometres (3.4 mi) from Nakodar, 36.5 kilometres (22.7 mi) from Kapurthala, 21 kilometres (13 mi) from district headquarter Jalandhar and 159 kilometres (99 mi) from state capital Chandigarh. The village is administrated by a sarpanch who is an elected representative of village as per Panchayati raj (India).
The Adventurer ek 1917 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Charles Chaplin ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Charles Chaplin, Edna Purviance, Eric Campbell, Henry Bergman acting kiye the.
Once upon a time a frogCroaked away in Bingle BogEvery night from dusk to dawnHe croaked awn and awn and awnOther creatures loathed his voice,But, alas, they had no choice,And the crass cacophonyBlared out from the sumac treeAt whose foot the frog each nightMinstrelled on till morning night
Òṣèlú aṣojú is a variety of democracy founded on the principle of elected people representing a group of people, as opposed to direct democracy. For example, two countries which use representative democracy are the United Kingdom (a constitutional monarchy) and Germany (a federal republic).
BENSON, Charles D.; FAHERTY, William B. Moonport: A History of Apollo Launch Facilities and Operations. [s.l.]: NASA, 1978. Dostupné online. Kapitola Chapter 10 - Saturn I Launches (1962 - 1965) (anglicky)
Futuyma, Douglas J., ed. (1999). "Evolution, Science, and Society: Evolutionary Biology and the National Research Agenda". Office of University Publications, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
Oberys yw an hyns-horn gans Hyns-horn Bras an West hag yma naw tren yn pub tu pub dydh. Yma tri thren moy y'n hav. Nyns eus saw dew po tri thren dhe Worsav Dibarthva Komm pub dydh rag oberoryon.
Demotic ownership of productive resources is a kind of ownership which leads to the politicisation of the economy, the real synthesis of economy and polity. This is so because economic decision making is carried out by the entire community, through the demotic assemblies, where people make the fundamental macro-economic decisions which affect the whole community, as citizens, rather than as vocationally oriented groups (e.g. workers, as e.g. in Parecon). At the same time, workers, apart from participating in the demotic decisions about the overall planning targets, would also participate (in the above broad sense of vocationally oriented groups) in their respective workplace assemblies, in a process of modifying/implementing the Democratic Plan and in running their own workplace.
Juit is a lang, saft, glazie vegetable feebre that can be snuven intae coorse, strang threids. It is produced frae plaunts in the genus Corchorus, faimily Malvaceae.
Philip Hammond finit li scola in li 1974 e studiat filosofie, political scientie e economie al University of Oxford. Pos su studies il laborat in un farmaceutic firma.
A square identity matrix of size n can be generated using the function eye, and matrices of any size with zeros or ones can be generated with the functions zeros and ones, respectively.
Bulawayo haes lang been and is still regardit as the seicont business caipital o Zimbabwe efter Harare an is hame tae the Naitional Railways o Zimbabwe acause o its strategic position near Botswana an Sooth Africae. It is the nearest lairge ceety tae Hwange National Park, Matopo National Park an Victoria Falls.
After his playing days ended, Gifford became a broadcaster for CBS, covering football, golf and basketball. When Monday Night Football was launched in 1970, ABC had originally planned to have Gifford in their broadcast booth, but he still had a year remaining on his contract with CBS. He therefore recommended his friend Don Meredith, who was hired. The following year, Gifford replaced Keith Jackson as Monday Night Football's play-by-play announcer, and remained involved with the show for 27 of its next 28 years. His low-key delivery provided a perfect counterbalance to broadcast partners Meredith and Howard Cosell. In an era with only three television broadcast networks, the series became the longest-running prime-time sports program in television history, and developed into one of television's most valuable franchises. In 1986, Al Michaels took over play-by-play duties, and Gifford switched to a commentator role. However, Gifford did play-by-play for the next several years (Gifford was joined by Lynn Swann on color commentary in 1986 and by Dan Dierdorf for the rest of his run on Monday Night Football) whenever Michaels was covering post-season baseball games for the network.
"Mother-to-child transmission of HIV in Botswana". World Federation of Scientists Planetary Emergencies Conference. Erice, Italy, August 2001.
Local transportation is servit bi anerly ceety buses. They run aboot 20 different weys o the ceety an some o thaim reach tae the muntain fowk. An aw, the buses are classifee'd intae 2 kynds – ane is Ilban-bus (normal bus) an the ither is Jwaseok-bus (full o seats an a little mair expensive than Ilban-bus). They run 15~25 minutes intervals alang their awn wey. The bus routes are leetit in baith Korean an English but the Korean version is interactive, an thusly mair helpful.
Maist o the main roads in the canton o Geneva radiate frae the caipital ceety o Geneva. O these main roads, a great number lead intae Fraunce rather than ony Swiss canton. The canton is servit bi an internaitional airport at Cointrin (Geneva Internaitional Airport) that haes ane terminal anerlie. There guid rail links tae ceeties in Fraunce an Swisserland. Syne 1984 the French heich-speed trains (TGV) come tae Geneva. In 1964 the canton o Geneva wis connectit tae the Swiss heich-gate seestem, in 1970 tae that o France.
You might also be interested in the idea to create a central Wikipedia Library where approved editors would have access to all participating resource donors. Add your feedback to the Community Fellowship proposal. Apologies for the English message (translate here). Go sign up :) --Ocaasi (talk) 02:11, 16 августа 2012 (UTC)
In October 2014, the American Civil Liberties Union filed a complaint against Columbia High School and the South Orange-Maplewood School District in relation to its academic leveling and disciplinary systems, stating that the overuse of discipline and "zero-tolerance" policy, and implicit racial bias within the level selection system violate Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Claims were made that the suspension rate for black students was five times higher than that for white students, in a classroom environment in which black students were significantly underrepresented in AP and honors classes.
To the north of China proper, the nomadic Xiongnu chieftain Modu Chanyu (r. 209–174 BC) conquered various tribes inhabiting the eastern portion of the Eurasian Steppe. By the end of his reign, he controlled Manchuria, Mongolia, and the Tarim Basin, subjugating over twenty states east of Samarkand. Emperor Gaozu was troubled about the abundant Han-manufactured iron weapons traded to the Xiongnu along the northern borders, and he established a trade embargo against the group. Although the embargo was in place, the Xiongnu found traders willing to supply their needs. Chinese forces also mounted surprise attacks against Xiongnu who traded at the border markets. In retaliation, the Xiongnu invaded what is now Shanxi province, where they defeated the Han forces at Baideng in 200 BC. After negotiations, the heqin agreement in 198 BC nominally held the leaders of the Xiongnu and the Han as equal partners in a royal marriage alliance, but the Han were forced to send large amounts of tribute items such as silk clothes, food, and wine to the Xiongnu.
Mulegé is the northmaist municipality o the Mexican state o Baja California Sur. It is the seicont-lairgest (ahint anerlie Ensenada) municipality bi aurie in the kintra, wi an aurie o 32,092.2 km² (12,777 sq mi). In the census of 2010 it haed a population o 59,114 inhabitants. Isla Natividad is pairt o the municipality.
Notifications will inform users about new activity that affects them on this wiki in a unified way: for example, this new tool will let you know when you have new talk page messages, edit reverts, mentions or links -- and is designed to augment (rather than replace) the watchlist. The Wikimedia Foundation's editor engagement team developed this tool (code-named 'Echo') earlier this year, to help users contribute more productively to MediaWiki projects.
Tahiti ke chhorr ke aur khaas island hae, : Ahe, Bora Bora, Hiva `Oa, Huahine, Maiao, Maupiti, Mehetia, Moorea, Nuku Hiva, Raiatea, Tahaa, Tetiaroa, Tubuai, and Tupai.
The Physics of Antisthenes contained a theory of the nature of the gods, in which he contended for the Unity of the Deity, and that man is unable to know him by any sensible representation, since he is unlike any being on earth.
Currently 2.96% of the MediaWiki messages and 0.13% of the messages of the extensions used by the Wikimedia Foundation projects have been localised. Please help us help your language by localising at Betawiki. This is the recent localisation activity for your language. Thanks, GerardM 08:08, 12 октября 2008 (UTC)
Artik (Armenian: Արթիկ, an aa Romanized as Art’ik) is a ceety locatit in the Shirak (marz) province o Armenie. It haes a population o 14,949 fowk, doun frae the 25,100 reportit in the 1989 census.
A multi-stakeholder’s approach was reiterated in ubuhuzabikorwa bwa international activities for the IGF. This adaptation was set from paragraphs 29 to 35 of the Tunis agenda. These stakeholders were defined as coming from governments, the private technical and economic sector, civil society, intergovernmental organizations, and international organizations. In paragraph 32, the UN Secretary-General was commended for his efforts in establishing the Itsinda Rikurikirana iby' Imicungire n'Imiyoborere ya Interineti (WGIG).
Dres oll, Durkheim a vynnis dhe gonvedhes fatell kemenethow a wra sostena aga honan y'n oos arnowydh; oos may ma disliwys an kevrennow hengovek ha kryjyk hag oos may ma lies kresen socyal nowydh. Y kynsa ober socyologiethek brassa o The Division of Labour in Society (1893). Yn 1895, ev a wrug dyllo The rules of Sociological Method ha fondya an kynsa asran a socyologieth yn Europa ha dheuth ha bos an kynsa profesor a socyologyieth yn pow Frynk. Ev a fondyas an jornal L'Année Sociologique yn 1898. Yn 1897 Suicide a veu dyllys. Yn Suicide, Durkheim a wrug hwithra niverans omladhans yn kemeneth Katholik ha protestant. An ober ma eth ha bos an fondyans a hwithrans socyal arnowydh. Yn 1912, The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life a veu dyllys. Ynno, Durkheim a wrug ri y tybieth a kryjyans.
Vanuatu, Pacific Ocean me ek des hae. Is me 83 islands hae. Vauatu ke The official bhasa, Bislama, English bhasa aur French bhasa hae. Vanuatu me chhe province hae jon ki Malampa, Penama, Sanma, Shefa, Tafea aur Torba hae. Vanuatu ke abaadi 202 609 (2004) hae. Vanuatu ke capital Port Vila hae. ii des dumo England aur France rule karat rahaa jab ki 1980 me ajaadi mila. Ajaadi se pahile iske naam "New Hebrides" nai to "Nouvelles Hebrides" rahaa.
Hello Wikipedians, my name is Alex and I am working for the Wikimedia Foundation during the 2011 Fundraiser. This year's fundraiser is intended to be a collaborative and global effort; we recognize that messages which may perform well in the United States don't necessarily translate well, or appeal to international audiences.
Devil ek 2010 mein bana English, Ukrainian, Spanish film hain. Yea film USA mein John Erick Dowdle ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Chris Messina, Logan Marshall-Green, Jenny O'Hara, Bojana Novakovic acting kiye the.
Along Came Polly ek 2004 mein bana English, Spanish film hain. Yea film USA mein John Hamburg ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Ben Stiller, Jennifer Aniston, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Debra Messing acting kiye the.
The Wikimedia Foundation's Fundraising team have begun our 'User Experience' project, with the goal of understanding the donation experience in different countries outside the USA and enhancing the localization of our donation pages. I am searching for volunteers to spend 30 minutes on a Skype chat with me, reviewing their own country's donation pages. It will be done on a 'usability' format (I will ask you to read the text and go through the donation flow) and will be asking your feedback in the meanwhile.
Kurebesa muromo unodya chomwedzi, cherima hauchiwani. If you talk too loud and too much, you will (only) eat something done in moonlight but not something done in darkness.
Above the visible surface of the Sun is a thin layer, about 2,000 km thick, that is dominated by a spectrum of emission and absorption lines. It is called the chromosphere from the Greek root chromos, meaning color, because the chromosphere is visible as a colored flash at the beginning and end of total eclipses of the Sun.
Fœtus or foetus is the British, Irish and Commonwealth spelling, which has been in use since at least 1594. It arose as a hypercorrection based on an incorrect etymology (i.e. due to insufficient knowledge of Latin) that may have originated with an error by Saint Isidore of Seville, in AD 620. This spelling is the most common in most English-speaking countries (except in medical literature). The original spelling based on the Latin etymology fetus however persists in Canada and the United States. In addition, fetus is now also the standard English spelling throughout the world in medical journals. The spelling "faetus" was used historically.
Sharma ke janam Nausori, Fiji me 1932 me bhais rahaa. Uu pahile ek civil servant aur insurance agent ke kaam karis aur 1960 me Tasmania, wakiili parrhe ke khatir, chalaa gais. 1964 me uske University of Tasmania se LLB mila. Fiji laute pe uu S. M. Koya aur fir A. D. Patel ke office me kaam karis. 1969 me uu aapan law firm ke kholis.
Illustrated Atlas of Clinical Equine Anatomy and Common Disorders of the Horse, oleh Ronald J. Riegal, D.V.M. dan Susan E. Hakola, B.S., R.N., C.M.I. Equistar Publications, Ltd., 1996.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 79,175 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 895.83 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 9513.
McCreery, C: The Maple Leaf and the White Cross: A History of St. John Ambulance and the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem in Canada (2008) (Anglice)
Ti Dong Hoi ket maysa a maikapat a klase nga ili iti provincia ti Quang Binh iti Vietnam. Dong Hoi Airport is 6 km north of the city. Phong Nha-Ke Bang is 50 km north of the city.
M. Prasad, Sixty Years of Soccer in Fiji 1938 – 1998: The Official History of the Fiji Football Association, Fiji Football Association, Suva, 1998.
{{infobox tanàna |tanàna=Tunis |firenena=Tonizia |isam-ponina=2 256 320<ref>Error on call to template:cite web: Parameters url and title must be specified.
Harrish y cheead-bleeaney lurg shen, ren leigh Normanagh cur stiagh ayns ynnyd y Leigh Briwnagh as ec jerrey y trass eash jeig yeianagh va corys feudagh Normanagh currit er bun er feie'n chooid smoo dy Nerin liorish ny Normanee Yernagh. Va buill chummaltit cowrit liorish bunneeaght ny barranaghtyn, ny mannoryn, ny baljyn as toshiaght y chorys coontae noa-emshiragh. Va lhieggan jeh'n Çhiart Vooar (Çhiart Vooar Nerin), soilshit magh 'sy vlein 1216, as eh cur Divlyn ayns ynnyd Lunnin as yn Agglish Yernagh ayns ynnyd Agglish Hostyn, as va Parlamaid Nerin bunnit 'sy vlein 1297.
The land that is now Tajikistan has been lived in since 4,000 BC. It has been under the rule of various empires throughout history, mostly the Persian Empires.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 14,518 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 23.40 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 5605.
Many wiki communities are private, particularly within enterprises. They are often used as internal documentation for in-house systems and applications.
Lanza B. & Corti C., 1996. Evolution of the knowledge on the Italian herpetofauna during the 20th century. Boll. Mus. Civ. St. nat. Verona, 20: 373-436.
The highest peak of the entire isle, is 25 meters high, and was an important spot for the communication highway for the Germans during þā Ōðre Woruldgūþ. - The peak is just outside the village of Horslunde. Since Lolland doesn't get any higher, it is very flat. Historically, sugar beets have been grown here.
Spider-Man 2 ek 2004 mein bana English, Russian, Chinese film hain. Yea film USA mein Sam Raimi ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst, James Franco, Alfred Molina acting kiye the.
Amandla aphakathi kwee-atoms akw-isolid angabonakala ngeendlela ngeendlela. Umzekelo, i-crystal yesodium chloride (ityuwa eyaziwayoityuwa yesiqhelo) yenziwe ngeion sodium ne-chlorine, ezidityaniswe ngee-bond zeion. Kwidayimani okanye i-silicon, ii-atom zabelana ngeeelectron zize zenze iicovalent bonds. Kwiimetal, ii-electrons zikwi-metallic bonding. ezinye ii-solids, njengee organic compounds ezininzi, zidityaniswe ng"amandla evan der Waals" avela kwipolarization of the electronic charge cloud on each molecule. The dissimilarities between the types of solid come from the differences between their bonding.
Fernando Alonso (born 29 Julayi 1981) kiri Spanish Formula 1 dereeva and bbiri obudde F1 world nantawunyikamu (2005-2006). Currently, as okuyunga with Ferrari alongside Felipe Massa.
Piezoelectricity /piˌeɪzoʊˌilɛkˈtrɪsɪti/ is the electric charge that accumulates in certain solit materials (sic as crystals, certain ceramics, an biological matter sic as bane, DNA an various proteins) in response tae applee'd mechanical stress. The wird piezoelectricity means electricity resultin frae pressur. It is derived frae the Greek piezo or piezein (πιέζειν), which means tae squeeze or press, an electric or electron (ήλεκτρον), which stands for amber, an auncient soorce o electric charge. Piezoelectricity wis discovered in 1880 bi French pheesicists Jacques an Pierre Curie.
Lenin, Vladimir 1967 [1913], Karl Marx: A Brief Biographical Sketch with an Exposition of Marxism. Peking: Foreign Languages Press. Skoðað 17. júní 2014.
1928 - A conference of the Methodist Teachers’ Association was held at Methodist Boys’ School in Toorak where the following office bearers were elected: President: Sewak Masih, Vice President: P M Stephen, Secretary: G P Andrew and Assistant Secretary: HR Narayan. John Bairagi was elected as Secretary International and BR Padarath was chosen as the Treasurer.
Moussaoui Trial "Substitute for Testimony" from Khalid Shaikh Mohammed. A summary of information KSM provided to his American interrogators.
Beginning with September 2011, college football broadcasts on CBS and the CBS Sports Network began using a scoring bug mirroring this one. CBS Sports Network's United Football League coverage in 2012 also used the same graphics package.
As previously mentioned, during the 1984 NBA Finals, Lesley Visser (wife of lead NBA on CBS play-by-play announcer Dick Stockton) became the first woman to cover an NBA Finals. She joined CBS Sports part-time in 1984 before joining full-time in 1987. When she was part-time with CBS, she still worked for the Boston Globe, as she had many diverse assignments with the newspaper. Visser became the first female NBA beat writer in 1976, when she was assigned to cover the Boston Celtics. Visser resigned from the Globe in late 1988.
Work on the canalization of the Rio Grande river was initiated in 1906. In 1918, graphite industry wis established. 1920 marked the the first telephone connection. In 1927, São Paolo municipality acquired Pedreira, a suburb of Rio Grande, bringing new factories with opportunities for employment. In 1928, an electic pouer station wis built. Atween 1930 an 1954 mony sma scale industries, extensive housin facilities, mercatin centers an factories manufacturing aw kins o bien wis set up. Schools, sports centers, musical events, carnivals and religious festivals emerged. Efter aw, thir developments the toun, Rio Grande da Serra, wis gien the status of municipality in 1964. Population growth in Rio Grande da Serra wis slaw til the mid-1970s, whan there wis an influx of migrants, maistly miners whilk haes lestit til the day, though the increase is nou faain.
Aaru ek 2005 mein bana Tamil film hain. Yea film India mein Hari ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Suriya, Trisha Krishnan, Vadivelu, Kalabhavan Mani acting kiye the.
The Municipio I, is a admeenistrative subdiveesion o the ceety o Roum. It is the centre o the municipality o Roum. It wis firstly creatit bi Roum's Ceety Council on 19 Januar 2001 an it haes a preses who is electit durin the mayoral elections.
The town still enjoys trade and commerce with the neighboring towns and Manila with whom she shares a coastline, a place that is replete with historical and glorious past.
CBS Sports first debuted on-screen graphics (as opposed to simple text) in 1991. These graphics used a small score graphic that contained the score and game clock, but it was turned off during plays. The graphics were gray, beveled edged rectangles, with logos shown in a beveled edged square.
Ole-Johan Dahl - Simula Andries van Dam - computer graphics, hypertext Christopher J. Date - proponent of database relational model Erik Demaine - computational origami Tom DeMarco Dorothy E. Denning - computer security Peter J. Denning - identified the use of an operating system's working set and balance set, President of ACM Michael Dertouzos - Director of Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Laboratory for Computer Science (LCS) from 1974 to 2001 Alexander Dewdney Vinod Dham - P5 Pentium processor Jan Dietz Whitfield Diffie - cryptography Edsger Dijkstra - algorithms, Goto considered harmful, semaphore (programming) Jack Dongarra - linear algebra high performance computing Marco Dorigo - ant colony optimization Paul Dourish - human computer interaction Charles Stark Draper - Apollo Guidance Computer Susan Dumais - Information Retrieval Adam Dunkels - Protothreads Alan Dix - literally wrote the book on HCI
Uijuro is a legal dong, or neebourheid o the Jung-gu destrict in Seoul, Sooth Korea an govrened bi its admeenistrative dongs, Sogong-dong an Jungnim-dong.
Martinon-Torres, M. & Rehren, Th., in press (a). Metallurgy, Europe. In: Encyclopedia of Society and Culture in the Medieval World. Dallas: Schlager.
Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals until September 29th to fund new tools, community-building processes, and other experimental ideas that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you need a small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), Individual Engagement Grants can support you and your team’s project development time in addition to project expenses such as materials, travel, and rental space.
Westwood One's coverage of Sunday Night Football begins with their weekly recap show, NFL Sunday. The show beings at 7:30 p.m every Sunday night on most affiliates (in cases where a market is getting the late game, the show is joined in progress), with Scott Graham hosting. The show consists of highlights and statistics from the previous games of the day as well as a preview of the upcoming Sunday night game live from the stadium. Graham then anchors the normal Sunday Night Football pregame show until kickoff. Graham has hosted NFL Sunday since he joined the network, replacing Tommy Tighe as he did as studio host; he hosted in 2009 with Jason Horowitz, who replaced Dave Lamont who departed for a college football play-by-play position at ESPN. Brent Musburger was the original studio host for the network and was eventually replaced by Greg Gumbel who in turn was replaced by Tighe.
There are no specific numbers to add to the claim that HIV and Aids has been the major cause of death among young people. Bungeni remains one of the communities with a domination of elderly people, it might be because of the traditional food such as Tihove, Xiendlahivomu, Ximbhundhwa, Xigugu, Xirhidza, etc. and the lifestyle in general.
Pacific Ocean uu ocean hae jiske west me Asia aur Australasia, east me America, south me Southern Ocean aur Arctic Ocean north me hae. Ii sab se barraa ocean hae aur dunia ke adha area ke cover kare hae. Ii Atlantic aur Indian ocean se mile hae.
Sohail played a big role in Pakistan's World-Cup triumph in 1992, famously telling Ian Botham that he might want to send his mother-in-law in to bat, referring to Botham's statement that he wouldn't send even his mother-in-law to Pakistan, after Botham was controversially given out for nought in the final. Sohail's most infamous moment on the cricket field, however, was in the 1996 World Cup Quarter Final against arch rival India in Bangalore. Sohail was captaining the side in pursuit of a relatively large target of 287 in 49 overs. With opening partner Saeed Anwar, he got Pakistan off to a flying start. With the score at 109 for one, and Saeed Anwar (48) back in the pavilion, Sohail smashed a delivery from Indian seamer Venkatesh Prasad through the covers for four. Both players exchanged words, and Sohail unnecessarily pointed his finger aggressively at Prasad. The next delivery clean-bowled him and triggered a batting collapse which ultimately lost the game and eliminated Pakistan from the competition.
Address by Dora Akunyili at The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars: Washington, D.C: USA: "Women Leadership in Emerging Democracy – My NAFDAC Experience"
... Mambo Nebhukhadhineza, atitami kudzirwira muiyi ndaa: King Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter. (Daniel 3:16, Bhaibheri reChiNdau).
In the UK, all newspapers are bound by the Code of Practice of the Press Complaints Commission. This includes points like respecting people's privacy and ensuring accuracy. However, the Media Standards Trust has criticised the PCC, claiming it needs to be radically changed to secure public trust of newspapers.
McKay, Ian. The Quest of the Folk: Antimodernism and Cultural Selection in Twentieth-Century Nova Scotia. McGill-Queen's U. Pr., 1994. 371 pp.
Killebrew, J. B. and Myrick, Herbert (1909). Tobacco Leaf: Its Culture and Cure, Marketing and Manufacture. Orange Judd Company. Source for flea beetle typology (p. 243)
Template:City of Haikou Template:Hainan topics Template:Hainan Template:Metropolitan cities of the People's Republic of China Template:Provincial capitals of China
01.11 - 02.11 - 03.11 - 04.11 - 05.11 - 06.11 - 07.11 - 08.11 - 09.11 - 10.11 - 11.11 - 12.11 - 13.11 - 14.11 - 15.11 - 16.11 - 17.11 - 18.11 - 19.11 - 20.11 - 21.11
Takis Fotopoulos talk on the Multidimensional Crisis and Inclusive Democracy, Oxford University, November 2008. Video in 3 parts. Part 1 (talk), part 2 (talk/discussion), part 3 (discussion). Retrieved 4 January 2014.
If you don't feel confident to create this article in Nahuatl, you may translate it totally or partially from another Wikipedia. You can find on a box on the left some links to this concept in several other languages.
The early Western Han court simultaneously accepted the philosophical teachings of Legalism, Huang-Lao Daoism, and Confucianism in making state decisions and shaping government policy. However, the Han court under Emperor Wu gave Confucianism exclusive patronage. He abolished all academic chairs or erudites (boshi 博士) not dealing with the Confucian Five Classics in 136 BC and encouraged nominees for office to receive a Confucian-based education at the Imperial University that he established in 124 BC. Unlike the original ideology espoused by Confucius, or Kongzi (551–479 BC), Han Confucianism in Emperor Wu's reign was the creation of Dong Zhongshu (179–104 BC). Dong was a scholar and minor official who aggregated the ethical Confucian ideas of ritual, filial piety, and harmonious relationships with five phases and yin-yang cosmologies. Much to the interest of the ruler, Dong's synthesis justified the imperial system of government within the natural order of the universe. The Imperial University grew in importance as the student body grew to over 30,000 by the 2nd century AD. A Confucian-based education was also made available at commandery-level schools and private schools opened in small towns, where teachers earned respectable incomes from tuition payments.
Mihai Nadin - anticipation research Makoto Nagao - machine translation, natural language processing, digital library Frieder Nake - pioneered computer arts Peter Naur - BNF, ALGOL 60 Roger Needham James G. Nell - GERAM Bernard de Neumann - massively parallel autonomous cellular processor, software engineering research John von Neumann - early computers, von Neumann machine Allen Newell - artificial intelligence, Computer Structures Max Newman - Colossus, MADM Andrew Ng - artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotics Nils Nilsson - artificial intelligence G.M. Nijssen - NIAM Jerre Noe Emmy Noether Peter Nordin - artificial intelligence, genetic programming, evolutionary robotics Donald Norman - user interfaces, usability George Novacky - Assistant Department Chair and Senior Lecturer in Computer Science, Assistant Dean of CAS for Undergraduate Studies at University of Pittsburgh Kristen Nygaard - Simula
NEFF, Robert. Rediscovering the Kowshing: The story of a treasure ship found off the coast of Korea [online]. ohmynews.com, 2007-09-04, [cit. 2010-12-02]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)
Frances Nicholson & Patrick Twomey (ed/) Refugee rights and realities - evolving international concepts and regimes, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999
Alamandwydh (unnplek alamandwydhen, Lat. Prunus dulcis) yw ehen a wydhen vyhan yn teylu Rosaceae (genas Prunus). An frooth alamandwydh yw know alamand.
Lippmann understood that journalism's role at the time was to act as a mediator or translator between the public and policy making elites. The journalist became the middleman. When elites spoke, journalists listened and recorded the information, distilled it, and passed it on to the public for their consumption. His reasoning behind this was that the public was not in a position to deconstruct the growing and complex flurry of information present in modern society, and so an intermediary was needed to filter news for the masses. Lippman put it this way: The public is not smart enough to understand complicated, political issues. Furthermore, the public was too consumed with their daily lives to care about complex public policy. Therefore the public needed someone to interpret the decisions or concerns of the elite to make the information plain and simple. That was the role of journalists. Lippmann believed that the public would affect the decision-making of the elite with their vote. In the meantime, the elite (i.e. politicians, policy makers, bureaucrats, scientists, etc.) would keep the business of power running. In Lippman's world, the journalist's role was to inform the public of what the elites were doing. It was also to act as a watchdog over the elites, as the public had the final say with their votes. Effectively that kept the public at the bottom of the power chain, catching the flow of information that is handed down from experts/elites.
Catharism (frae the Greek: καθαροί, katharoi, "the pure [anes]") wis a Christian dualist or Gnostic revival muivement that thrived in some auries o Soothren Europe, pairteecularly northren Italy an soothren Fraunce, atween the 12t an 14t centuries.
1790 - Edmund Burke publishes Reflections on the Revolution in France, in which he predicts that the French Revolution will end in disaster.
Cochabamba (frae Quechua: qucha or qhucha, meanin "lake", pampa meanin "plain" ) is ane o the nine component depairtments o Bolivie. It is kent tae be the "granary" o the kintra acause o its variety o agricultural products due tae Cochabamba's geographical position. It haes an aurie o 55,631 km². Its population, in the 2007 census, was 1,750,000. Its caipital is the ceety o Cochabamba. Cochabamba is kent as the "Ceety o Eternal Spring" an "The Garden Ceety" due tae its spring-like temperatures year roond.
By June 2000, Google had indexed one billion Internet URLs, or Uniform Resource Locators, making it the most comprehensive search engine on the Web at the time. The company cited NEC Research Institute data in its June 26 press release, stating that "there are more than 1 billion web pages online today," with Google "providing access to 560 million full-text indexed web pages and 500 million partially indexed URLs."
It was started on January 10, 2001 by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger as part of an earlier Internet encyclopedia named Nupedia. On January 15, 2001, Wikipedia became a separate website of its own. It is a wiki that runs using the software MediaWiki (like all other Wikimedia projects).
United Nations Treaty Registered No. 10760, Agreement relating to Malaysia between United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Federation of Malaya, North Borneo, Sarawak and Singapore
Back in the US he made another film with Blake Edwards, the thriller The Carey Treatment (1972). It was badly cut by MGM and was commercially underwhelming. So too was The Honkers (1972) where Coburn played a rodeo rider.
Decision of Hon'ble Special Full Bench hearing Ayodhya Matters (Allahabad High Court Judgment/Order on Ayodhya Dispute (Ram Janmabhoomi Babri Masjid dispute)
Colorado Rockies ke valley me average annual temperature 43 °F (6 °C) hae. July, saal ke sab se garam time rahe hae jab ki average temperature of 82 °F (28 °C) rahe hae. January me average monthly temperature 7 °F (−14 °C) rahe hae. Hian pe har saal average pe 14 inches (360 mm) paani barse hae.
She biljyn bearkanagh 'sy ghenus Pinus ad Juys ny Pine. T'ad jannoo seose fo-chynney Pinoideae 'sy chynney Pinaceae. Ta mys 115 dooieyn ayn, agh ta'n earroo jeeragh croghey er quoi t'ou feysht.
Grand Cross of the Iron Cross for "the victories of the Luftwaffe in 1940 during the French campaign" (the only award of this decoration – 19 July 1940)
D'entre a suya ampla filmografía, se puet citar as suyas interpretacions en cintas como The Lion in Winter (1968, Anthony Harvey), A Bridge Too Far (1977, Richard Attenborough), Audrey Rose (1977, Robert Wise), Magic (1978, Richard Attenborough), 84 Charing Cross Road (1987, David Hugh Jones), The Silence of the Lambs (1991, Jonathan Demme), The Remains of the Day (1993, James Ivory), Nixon (1995, Oliver Stone), Amistad (1997, Steven Spielberg), Meet Joe Black (1998, Martin Brest), u Bobby (2006, Emilio Estevez).
Quimper (French pronunciation: [kɛ̃.pɛʁ]; Breton: Kemper, Laitin: Civitas Aquilonia or Corisopitum) is a commune an caipital o the Finistère depairtment o Brittany in northwastren Fraunce.
A.S. Khadikar, N. Basaviah, T. K. Gundurao and C. Rajshekhar Paleoenvironments around the Harappan port of Lothal, Gujarat, western India, in Journal of the Indian Geophysicists Union (2004)
It is an element of both the parliamentary system and presidential system of government and is typically used in a lower chamber such as the House of Commons (UK) or Bundestag (Germany), and is generally curtailed by constitutional constraints such as an upper chamber. It has been described by some political theorists as Polyarchy.
Labasa (pronounced: Lambasa) Fiji ke Vanua Levu island me ek town hae. Ii town Macuata province aur Northern vibhag me hae. Labasa ke abaadi 24,187 (1996 census) hae.
All the Real Girls ek 2003 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein David Gordon Green ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Paul Schneider, Zooey Deschanel, Shea Whigham, Danny McBride acting kiye the.
Academic genealogy of computer scientists List of pioneers in computer science List of programming language researchers List of members of the National Academy of Sciences (Computer and information sciences) List of programmers List of computing people List of important publications in computer science List of Russian IT developers [संपादन]References
North Slope Iñupiaq Grammar Second Year (Preliminary Edition for Student Use Only) by Edna Ahgeak MacLean, Alaska Native Language Center, University of Alaska Fairbanks, seventh printing 2000
Trevanta yw hanow a vanerji yn Penntorr, yn Howldrehevel Kernow a-ugh Dowr Tamer ogas hag Essa. A-barth Syrr William Carew y feu an chi drehevys y'n blydhynyow 1710.
If HTTPS causes problems for you, tell us on bugzilla, on IRC (in the #wikimedia-operations channel) or on meta. If you can't use the other methods, you can also send an e-mail to https@wikimedia.org.
Apart from the passing of noble titles or ranks, inheritance practices did not involve primogeniture; each son received an equal share of the family property. Since the father usually sent his adult married sons away with a portion of the family fortune, unlike later dynasties, sons did not always receive their inheritance after the death of their father. Daughters were not formally included in a father's will, although they did receive a portion of the family fortune through their marriage dowries.
Vedanta and the West was the official publication of the Vedanta Society of Southern California. It offered essays by many of the leading intellectuals of the time and had contributions from Aldous Huxley, Gerald Heard, Alan Watts, J. Krishnamurti, W. Somerset Maugham, and many others. Isherwood was Managing Editor from 1943 until 1945. Together with Huxley and Heard, he served on the Editorial Advisory Board from 1951 until 1962.
Sergei Eisenstein Scrapbook of photographs and manuscripts, [ca. 1900]-1930 (2 volumes) is house at the Museum of Modern Art Museum Archives.
The oblast’ is a centre o Ukraine's ile an natural gas industry, wi mony wells an pipelines situatit here. There is a major ile refinery plant in the ceety o Kremenchuk. Important iron ore processin facilities an aw present. In general there are 374 lairge industrial organization an 618 sma industrial organizations.
-chichinura [L]KZ v t Acquire, obtain (large amount). cp -rokota MZ. Vanhu vanoenda kusero ndivo vanochichinura zvizhinji: people who go to a sale are the ones who get many things.
Sapphire (Greek: σάπφειρος; sappheiros, 'blue stane', which probably referred instead at the time tae lapis lazuli) is a gemstane variety o the mineral corundum, an aluminium oxide (α-Al2O3). Trace amoonts o ither elements such as airn, titanium, chromium, copper, or magnesium can gie corundum blue, yellae, purpie, orange, or a greenish colour. Chromium impurities in corundum yield a pink or reid tint, the latter bein cried a ruby.
Nico Erik Rosberg (born 27 Juin 1985) is a German racin driver for the Mercedes Formula Ane team. He races unner the German flag in Formula Ane, an haes an aa briefly competit for Finland very early in his career. He haulds dual naitionality o these twa kintras.
The editing of the language editions is not coordinated, and articles of one edition need not match their counterparts in another edition. Multilingual editors of sufficient fluency are encouraged to manually translate articles; automated translation of articles is explicitly disallowed. Translated articles represent only a small portion of articles in most editions. Articles available in more than one language offer "InterWiki" links in their left margins, which link to the counterpart articles in other editions. Images and other non-verbal media are shared among the various language editions through the Wikimedia Commons repository.
It cannot be too earnestly urged that an acquaintance with real facts will, in the end, be better for all parties. Some time ago, when the reading public was alarmed at being told how London milk is adulterated, timid persons deprecated the exposure, on the plea that it would give instructions in the art of adulterating milk; a vain fear, milkmen knew all about it before, whether they practiced it or not; and the exposure only taught purchasers the necessity of a little scrutiny and caution, leaving them to obey this necessity or not, as they pleased.
Atkinson, James (1968). Martin Luther and the Birth of Protestantism, in series, Pelican Book[s]. Harmondsworth, Eng.: Penguin Books. 352 p.
Malta, Europe ke ek island des hae. Ii Mediterranean Sea ke biich me aur Sicily ke south me hae. Malta ke capital city Valletta hae. Lagbhag 400,000 log Malta me rahe hae. Malta dunia ke ek sab se densely populated desme se ek hae.
The main educational institution is the University o Geneva, foondit in 1559 bi Calvin. It wis oreeginally cried Schola Genevensis. The oreeginal buildings arnae uised bi the University ony mair, but by Collège Calvin.
Mahavira (Mahāvīra), an aa kent as Vardhamāna, wis the twenty-fowert an last Jain Tirthankara (teachin god). Mahavira wis born into a ryal faimily in whit is nou Bihar, Indie, in 599 BC. At the age o 30, he left his home in pursuit o spiritual awakenin, an abandoned warldly things, includin his claes, an acame a monk. For the next twal-an-a-hauf years, Mahavira practiced intense meditation an severe penance, efter which he acame kevalī (omniscient).
Shadow Play — Website accompanying a 2002 PBS documentary on Indonesia, with emphasis on the Suharto-era and the transition from New Order to Reformation
The lever tumbler lock, which uses a set of levers to prevent the bolt from moving in the lock, was perfected by Robert Barron in 1778. His double acting lever lock required the lever to be lifted to a certain height by having a slot cut in the lever, so lifting the lever too far was as bad as not lifting the lever far enough. This type of lock is still currently used today.
The Rio Grande River Basin, with its tributaries, form part of the municipality, with the "Rio Grande arm" of the Billings Reservoir and Dam which is its most significant geographical feature, covering a total of 127 square kilometres (49 sq mi). It is named after Asa White Kenney Billings, the United States hydroelectric engineer who was instrumental in building it. The reservoir supplies about 1.8 million people, and also is used for fishing and swimming. In addition to Rio Grande da Serra and Sao Paulo, the Billings sub-basin includes Diadema, Ribeirao Pires, Santo Andre, and Sao Bernardo do Campo. Besides the Rio Grande and Billings Reservoir and dam, the municipality has a lot of streams and creeks, such as the streams of Figueira, Cloro, and Piolzinho.
For most of the early years, the NBA tried to assist CBS by allowing the network to choose any game it wanted to broadcast. But too often, these involved smaller-market teams (such as the Portland Trail Blazers) that were in the playoffs or had won the championship.
The toun serves as the municipal seat for the surroondin municipality, wi which it shares a name. The biggin whaur the municipal govrenment is servit as a elementar schuil Temoac the fowk in the nineteent hunderyear an early twintiet hunderyear. The municipality reportit 12,065 inhabitants in the year 2000 census.
Burial Ground met with a positive critical response, with a number of critics noting the mixing of upbeat reggae and dub. According to The Reggae Review, "Original, bass-heavy, one drop beats are consistent throughout the album, as are the subtle nuances...and sometimes not so subtle nuances....of dub. Stick Figure's digits remain firmly on the pulse of roots reggae/dub music." The Pier stated "the album represents a new milestone in Stick Figure's musical growth and innovative abilities, with more layering, instrumental transcendence, and lyrical complexity [than their previous albums]."
If this page is not the best place to publicize this request for comment, please help spread the word to those who may be interested in participating. (If you'd like to help translating the "request for comment", program policy or other pages into your language and don't know how the translation system works, please come by my user talk page at m:User talk:Mdennis (WMF). I'll be happy to assist or to connect you with a volunteer who can assist.)
Uguañoti ai 851 lugaris Patrimoñu la Umaniá en 142 Estaus. D´estus, 660 son colturalis, 166 son naturalis i 25 son mistus. Further site classification includes the classification of the State Parties among five geographic zones: Africa, Arab States (composed of northern Africa and the Middle East), Asia-Pacific (includes Australia and Oceania), Europe and North America (specifically, USA and Canada), and Latin America and the Caribbean.
1870 - In þǣm Geānlǣhtum Rīcum, the Weather Bureau (later renamed the National Weather Service) makes its first official meteorological forecast.
Polyandry (frae Greek: πολυ- poly-, "mony" and ἀνήρ anēr, "man") involves mairiage that includes mair nor twa pairtners an can faw unner the broader category o polyamory. Mair speceefically, it is a form o polygamy, whaur a woman takes twa or mair husbands at the same time. Polyandry is contrasted wi polygyny, involvin ane male an twa or mair females. If a mairiage involves a plural nummer o "husbands an wives" pairteecipants o each gender, then it can be cried polyamory, group or conjynt mairiage. In its broadest uise, polyandry refers tae sexual relations wi multiple males within or withoot mairiage.
China's first imperial dynasty was the Qin dynasty (221–206 BC). The Qin unified the Chinese Warring States by conquest, but their empire became unstable after the death of the first emperor Qin Shi Huangdi. Within four years, the dynasty's authority had collapsed in the face of rebellion. Two former rebel leaders, Xiang Yu (d. 202 BC) of Chu and Liu Bang (d. 195 BC) of Han, engaged in a war to decide who would become hegemon of China, which had fissured into 18 kingdoms, each claiming allegiance to either Xiang Yu or Liu Bang. Although Xiang Yu proved to be a capable commander, Liu Bang defeated him at Battle of Gaixia (202 BC), in modern-day Anhui. Liu Bang assumed the title "emperor" (huangdi) at the urging of his followers and is known posthumously as Emperor Gaozu (r. 202–195 BC). Chang'an was chosen as the new capital of the reunified empire under Han.
In March 2004, while Goodrem was undergoing cancer treatment for Hodgkins disease, Higgins and Carter announced plans to release the album. They would shop the album around and begin a bidding war amongst record companies. After the overwhelming success of Goodrem's debut album Innocent Eyes, which sold over 4.5 million copies worldwide, industry experts expected that bidding for the album could attract figures anywhere between $1.5 million and $15 million. When Goodrem and her family disapproved of the album's release, a lawsuit was filed. Goodrem's lawyers claimed the album was made up of unfinished demo recordings which were not fit for commercial release. After much coverage in the media, the case was settled in mediation. In exchange for not releasing the album, Higgins and Carter received an unspecified payout.
Besemer, S. (2012b) Specialized versus versatile intergenerational transmission of violence: A new approach to studying intergenerational transmission from violent versus non-violent fathers: Latent class analysis. Journal of Quantitative Criminology, 28, 245-263.
Udaipur, also known as the City of Lakes, is a city, a Municipal Corporation and the administrative headquarters of the Udaipur district in the state of Rajasthan in western India. It is located 403 kilometres (250 mi) southwest of the state capital, Jaipur, 248 km (154 mi) west of Kota, and 250 km (155 mi) northeast from Ahmedabad. Udaipur is the historic capital of the kingdom of Mewar in the former Rajputana Agency. The Guhils (Sisodia) clan ruled the Mewar and its capital was shifted from Chittorgarh to Udaipur after founding city of Udaipur by Maharana Uday Singh. The Mewar province became part of Rajasthan after India became independent
Dragonslayer ek 1981 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Matthew Robbins ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Peter MacNicol, Caitlin Clarke, Ralph Richardson, John Hallam acting kiye the.
The tot population as o 2005 wis less nor hauf a million, wi mair nor hauf livin in the Quibdó. Accordin tae a 2005 census the ethnic composition o the depairtment is:
Hazare, Anna; Ganesh Pangare, Vasudha Lokur (1996). Adarsh Gaon Yojana: government participitation in a peoples program : ideal village project of the Government of Maharashtra. Hind Swaraj Trust. p. 95.
Gáláksì Andromẹ́dà ( /ænˈdrɒmɪdə/) ni gáláksì alọ́ra tó fi bíi ọdún-ìtànmọ̀lẹ̀ 2.5 mílíọ̀nù (2.4 × 1019 km) jìnnà sí Ayé tó sì wà ní iṣúpọ̀-ìràwọ̀ Andromeda. Also known as Messier 31, M31, or NGC 224, it is often referred to as the Great Andromeda Nebula in older texts. The Andromeda Galaxy is the nearest spiral galaxy to our Milky Way galaxy, but not the closest galaxy overall. It gets its name from the area of the sky in which it appears, the constellation of Andromeda, which was named after the mythological princess Andromeda. The Andromeda Galaxy is the largest galaxy of the Local Group, which also contains the Milky Way, the Triangulum Galaxy, and about 30 other smaller galaxies. Although the largest, the Andromeda Galaxy may not be the most massive, as recent findings suggest that the Milky Way contains more dark matter and could be the most massive in the grouping. The 2006 observations by the Spitzer Space Telescope revealed that M31 contains one trillion (1012) stars: at least twice the number of stars in the Milky Way galaxy, which is estimated to be 200–400 billion.
On 29 August 2014, Carvajal was called up to the squad for the first time, for matches against France and Macedonia. He made his debut on 4 September, in a 0–1 friendly defeat to the former in which he played the full 90 minutes; he was also selected for the UEFA Euro 2016 tournament, being dropped from the squad after an injury contracted whilst with his club.
The population o the Canton, as o December 2009, contains 161,539 fowk oreeginally frae Geneva (35.3%), 116,504 Swiss frae ither cantons (25.5%) an 179,385 foreigners (39.20%), frae 192 different kintras. Amang them aboot 73% come frae Europe (mony o Albanie oreegin), 9% frae Africa, 9% frae the Americas an 8% frae Asie Includin fowk hauldin multiple citizenship, 54.4% o fowk livin in Geneva hauld a foreign passport.
You are also welcome to join tomorrow's Office hours chat on IRC, this Thursday, January 16, at 19:00 UTC, if you would like to discuss this project with our team and other community members.
The comparison was also noted by the authors of The Google Story: "Not since Gutenberg ... has any new invention empowered individuals, and transformed access to information, as profoundly as Google." Also, not long after the two "cooked up their new engine for web searches, they began thinking about information that was at the time beyond the web," such as digitizing books and expanding health information.
For example, the Creative Commons Attribution (BY) license allows one to share and remix (create derivative works), even for commercial use, so long as attribution is given.
But for the ID project, the issue is not the dissolution of the private/public realm divide. The real issue is how, maintaining and enhancing the autonomy of the two realms, such institutional arrangements are adopted that introduce democracy at the household and the social realm in general (workplace, educational establishment etcetera) and at the same time enhance the institutional arrangements of political and economic democracy. In this sense, an effective democracy is only conceivable if free time is equally distributed among all citizens, which requires ending the present hierarchical relations in the household, the workplace and elsewhere. Furthermore, democracy in the social realm, particularly in the household, requires institutional arrangements which recognise the character of the household as a need-satisfier and integrate the care and services that the household provides into the general scheme of needs satisfaction.
Air Buddies ek 2006 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Robert Vince ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Cascy Beddow, Jane Carr, Kelly Chapek, Patrick Cranshaw acting kiye the.
Yeh Kaisa Devdas?: The right thing for director Bhansali could have been to be inspired by Devdas, make a film on similar lines, and name it, perhaps, Ramdas, says Devinder Bir Kaur
Alcorcón (Spaingie pronunciation: [alkorˈkon]) is a ceety in the sooth-wast o the Madrid metropolitan aurie, Spain. As o 2010, it haed a population o 168,229.
Aiwa / L'Amour A Tous Les Droits / Biguisse / Amoul Solo / Dabah / Boulfale / Faut Qu'on S'Aime / Africa Democratie / Diour Sani / Badara / Ma Dame / N'Dally / Xalas / Mam
Va'n fallsoonagh as y jeeaghteyr Yernagh Johannes Scotus Eriugena coontit myr nane jeh lught share yn tushtey ayns ny Mean Eashyn. Va'n Reejerey Ernest Henry Shackleton, ronseyder Anglo-Yernagh, nane jeh ny h-ard-phersoonyn ayns ronsaght yn Antarctagh. Ren eh, marish lught y hurrys echey, y chied drappal er Slieau Erebus as ronsaghey magh dy voayl faggyssagh y Phoull Magnaidagh Jiass. Va Robert Boyle ny fallsoonagh najooragh, ny chemmigagh, ny 'ishigagh, ny ynlaghteyr as ny oayllee ooasle jeh'n 17-oo eash. T'eh ammyssit myr nane jeh bunneyderyn ny kemmig noa-emshiragh as ta enney share er son cur ayns focklyn Leigh Boyle. Ghow y fishigagh jeh'n 19-oo eash, John Tyndall, magh eiyrtys Tyndall, sheiltynys ta meenaghey cre'n fa dy vel daah gorrym er y speyr. Ta enney share er yn Ayr Nicholas Joseph Callan, Olloo Fallsoonys Najooragh ayns Colaashtey Vaanoot, son ynlaght y chaslag indughtee, y chaghlaader, as feddyn magh aght leah dy ghalvaanaghey 'sy 19-oo eash.
The army's two battalions are located in separate bases. The 1st Battalion is based at Baucau, with a contingent in the seaside coastline village of Laga. The 2nd Battalion is stationed at the Nicolau Lobato Training Centre near Metinaro. Almost all of the 2nd Battalion's soldiers were dismissed during the 2006 crisis.
Wrath of the Titans ek 2012 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA, Spain mein Jonathan Liebesman ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Sam Worthington, Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes, Edgar Ramírez acting kiye the.
Jokūbas Robinzonas–Jacob Robinson: Elements of His Curriculum Vitae and Aspects Exemplifying His Continued Relevance in Our Time // Eglė Bendikaitė ir Dirk Roland Haupt (sud.): The Life, Times and Work of Jokūbas Robinzonas–Jacob Robinson. St. Augustin: Academia. 2015, p. 3–16
The OFC Champions League winner also advances to the qualifying round of the 2010 FIFA Club World Cup. 0-0 1-1 PRK Hekari United 5 g red cartons win be played R. Momolikski
"Apple releases iOS 6.1 with iTunes Match improvements, Siri movie ticket sales". Apple Insider. January 28, 2013. Retrieved 29 January 2013.
Ferraris, C.J. Jr., 2003. Family Mugilidae (Mullets). p. 655-656. A: R.E. Reis, S.O. Kullander i C.J. Ferraris, Jr. (eds.) Checklist of the Freshwater Fishes of South and Central America. Porto Alegre: EDIPUCRS, Brasil.
The Philosophical Ideas of Swami Abhedananda: A Critical Study; a Guide to the Complete Works of Swami Abhedananda, by Prajnanananda. Published by Ramakrishna Vedanta Math, 1971.
Rod Shealy was born on December 22, 1953 to Elsie (née Porth), who worked as an executive for World Book Encyclopedia, and Ryan Shealy, a South Carolina politician who served in the state's House and Senate. He was the second of five children. Shealy attended Lexington High School and graduated in 1972. One of his sisters, Sherry Shealy Martschink, (1949 –) served in both the SC House and Senate and ran for lieutenant governor.
Ayns docamad veih'n vlein 1365 va Biesen enmyssit Biezenhausen. By vannor eh Oberhausen v'ec lught thie jeh'n ennym cheddin. Ta'n ennym Barkhausen cowraghey magh eaghtyr va craplit liorish beihyn. Ta'n awin Passade roie trooid y valley raad ta mwyllin ny lhie. Hie yn mwyllin shen er ny hroggal 'sy vlein 1559, as she thie bee t'ayn jiu.
Weber ended his research of society and religion in India by bringing in insights from his previous work on China to discuss similarities of the Asian belief systems. He notes that the beliefs saw the meaning of life as otherworldy mystical experience. The social world is fundamentally divided between the educated elite, following the guidance of a prophet or wise man, and the uneducated masses whose beliefs are centered on magic. In Asia, there was no Messianic prophecy to plan and meaning to the everyday life of educated and uneducated alike. Weber juxtaposed such Messianic prophecies, notably from the Near East region to those found on the Asiatic mainland, focusing more on exemplary ways to live one's life. It was those differences that prevented the countries of the Occident from following the paths of the earlier Chinese and Indian civilizations. His next work, Ancient Judaism was an attempt to prove this theory.
CHS has had a major addition every 20 to 30 years. In the 1930s, an industrial arts wing brought students the skills needed during the Great Depression. In the 1950s, a large addition, now known as "C-Wing", added classrooms to cope with increasing student numbers as well as a massive gymnasium (bringing the total number of gyms to three). In the early 70s, a projected enrollment boom and the need for new science, fine arts, and industrial arts space created the need for "B" and "D" wings. A new cafeteria, the largest public school library at the time, space for academic advising, a now-gone small movie theater and A/V room and a TV studio were built. With these additions, the earlier 1927 structure is only visible from the front facade and between later additions. In 2005, much of the space previously used for industrial arts such as wood shop and auto shop was transformed into a theatre performance and general use space. In 2009, renovations were completed on the main entryway, reviving original stone and woodwork, but with a conspicuous misspelling of the school's motto, "Excelsior", carved as "Excelcior" into the masonry floor.
Figures used in this chart are based on the most up to date estimate or projections by the national census authority where available, and are usually rounded off. Where updated national data are not available, figures are based on the 2013 estimates by the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. Because the compiled figures are not collected at the same time in every country, or at the same level of accuracy, the resulting numerical comparisons may create misleading conclusions. Furthermore, the addition of figures from all countries may not equal the world total.
Bemis, Samuel Flagg. John Quincy Adams and the Foundations of American Foreign Policy (1949), the standard history of Monroe's foreign policy.
BMP-1 (700) and BMP-2 (1500+)Sarath -(AFV) mechanised infantry combat vehicles relegated the OT-62/64 to mortar carriers. The BMP-2 are now being modernized with TISAS (thermal imaging stand alone sights), better fire control, and more modern ATGM armament (Konkurs M). BMP-1 has been phased out and the upgraded BMP-2 is BMP-2 M with two thermobaric missiles and two tandem warhead Konkurs missiles. Its also has an integrated TI sight, an LRF, and has an AGL mounted on the turret which is also stabilised in the horizontal plane. 100 gets added each year.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). "Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist.". Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
Since, this is the first time we have installed the tool on this Wikipedia, there are chances that there may be some problems or service disruptions which we are not yet aware of. We will be monitoring the usage to check for any failures or issues, but please do let us know on the Content Translation talk page or through Phabricator if you spot any problems that prevent you from using the tool. For more information, please read about how to use the tool. You can also view a short screencast on how to use Content Translation. My apologies for writing this announcement only in English and Russian. Please feel free to translate this message for wider distribution. Thank you.--Runab WMF (обсуждение) 17:35, 7 Май 2015 (UTC)
In 1947, the U.S. established a central intelligence agency to coordinate its various foreign intelligence efforts. It was named the Central Intelligence Agency.
(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) Next week, the Wikimedia Foundation will transition its main technical operations to a new data center in Ashburn, Virginia, USA. This is intended to improve the technical performance and reliability of all Wikimedia sites, including this wiki. There will be some times when the site will be in read-only mode, and there may be full outages; the current target windows for the migration are January 22nd, 23rd and 24th, 2013, from 17:00 to 01:00 UTC (see other timezones on timeanddate.com). More information is available in the full announcement.
Demotic self-reliance is meant in terms of radical decentralisation and collective self-sufficiency, in the sense of relying on the demos' resources rather than in the sense of autarky.
. Frederick Webb Hodge, ed., Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico (2 vols., Washington: GPO, 1907, 1910; rpt., New York: Pageant, 1959).
Athin the framewirk o admeenistrative diveesions, Belovsky Destrict is ane o the nineteen in the oblast. The toun o Belovo serves as its admeenistrative centre, despite bein incorporatit separately as a toun unner oblast jurisdiction—an admeenistrative unit wi the status equal tae that o the destricts.
Ta eaddeeyn cloie paart ayns foaynooyn sheshoil as cultooragh chammah. Myr sampleyr, ta cullee eaddee cur enney er feallee hivoil lheid as poleenyn, sidooryn, fwirran, a.r.e. Ayns ram sheshaghtyn ta cliaghtaghyn mychione eaddeeyn aahoilshaghey stundayrtyn er feeudys, craueeaght, keintys, as staydys sheshoil. Foddee dy vel eaddeeyn cloie paart myr cummey jesheenaghey as dreagh dy hosheeaghtyn ny fassan persoonagh.
Mint descends from the Latin word mentha, which is rooted in the Greek word minthe. Minthe has linguistic connections to a woman of the same name in Greek Mythology.
FIFA website: Germany FIFA World Cup victories Winner (1954, 1974, 1990, 2014) Runners-Up (1966, 1982, 1986, 2002) Third (1934, 1970, 2006, 2010) Fourth (1958)
At least on June 2-3, 2012, you may see a small number of edits from IPv6 addresses, which are in the form "2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334". See e.g. w:en:IPv6 address. These addresses should behave like any other IP address: You can leave messages on their talk pages; you can track their contributions; you can block them. (See the full version of this announcement for notes on range blocks.)
In recent years, the ballpoint pen has become a popular art medium, as demonstrated by such websites as biro-art.com. Many people also create art on themselves with the pens; this is sometimes known as a ballpoint tattoo. Due to this, and to its wide-spread use by schoolchildren, all ballpoint ink formulas are non-toxic, and the manufacturing and content of the ink is regulated in most countries.
The vocative case (abbreviatit VOC, voc.) is the case uised for a noon that identifies a person (ainimal, object, etc.) bein addressed or, occasionally, the determiners o that noon.
Ren kestalyn crauee jeh'n 17-oo eash cur rheynn scarreydagh ayns Nerin. Ren ammys crauee feddyn magh y tastid 'sy leigh er y leighaltys da'n Ree as da'n Pharlamaid Yernagh. Lurg goaill rish y Test Act 1673 as lesh barriaght ny forseyn jeh'n reeriaght ghooblit jeh Illiam as Moirrey harrish ny Jamyssee, va lhiettrimys currit er Catolee Raueagh as er Protestoonee Neuchoardailagh anchochredjuagh rish soie myr olteynyn ayns Parlamaid Nerin. Fo ny leighyn kerree, va cairyn deiney ny smoo as ny smoo goit ass ny Catolee Raueagh as ny Protestoonee Neuchoardailagh goaill stiagh cairyn da eirys. Va tooilley slattyssyn kerree cooyllagh currit rish ayns ny bleeantyn 1703, 1709 as 1728. Ren eh creaghney corys slane dy chur neuvondeish er Catolee Raueagh as Neuchoardailee Phrotestoonagh, as lhig ny slattyssyn shen lhiasaghey sleih mullee jeh Coardailee Anglicaanagh. Va'n lught reill Anglo-Yernagh shen enmyssit Eaghtyrys Protestoonagh.
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez's "Ain't It Funny (Murder Remix)", which reached number one on Billboard Hot 100, which was also in the top 10 chart at the same time as "Foolish", "Always on Time" (with Ja Rule), and "What's Luv" (with Fat Joe). Later that year, she was acclaimed as the "Princess Of Hip-Hop & R&B" by her label and capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards. Within seven years of Ashanti's career, she has scored 16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100. Ashanti has endorsed numerous products including Gap, Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans.
After serving 12 years as an assistant coach, including the previous four at California, Kennedy's first collegiate head coaching job came at Centenary. There, he took over a program that had won only 30 games in the previous three seasons. His first team won 10 games but his second improved to a 14-14 overall record and a 9-7 Trans America Athletic Conference mark, its best finish in five years.
Aladdin and His Wonderful Lamp ek 1939 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Dave Fleischer ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Margie Hines, Jack Mercer, Carl Meyer acting kiye the.
As of 2008, the gender distribution of the population was 47.7% male and 52.3% female. The population was made up of 1,027 Swiss men (38.9% of the population) and 230 (8.7%) non-Swiss men. There were 1,151 Swiss women (43.6%) and 229 (8.7%) non-Swiss women. Of the population in the municipality 1,283 or about 60.3% were born in Leytron and lived there in 2000. There were 420 or 19.7% who were born in the same canton, while 178 or 8.4% were born somewhere else in Switzerland, and 244 or 11.5% were born outside of Switzerland.
An anime television adaptation of C³ was announced in the Abril 2011 issue of ASCII Media Works's Dengeki AnimeStyle pamphlet. The series was produced by StarChild and SILVER LINK under the direction of Shin Ōnuma with Michiko Yokote as script supervisor. The opening theme song is "Endless Story" performed by Yukari Tamura and the ending theme song is "Hana" (雪華 ?, "Snow Flower") performed by Eri Kitamura.
The phylogeography of this group provides examples of various speciation mechanisms at work. In this scenario ancestors of this group became isolated from the remaining Ilex when the Earth mass broke away into Gondwana and Laurasia about 82 million years ago, resulting in a physical separation of the groups and beginning a process of change to adapt to new conditions. This mechanism is called allopatric speciation. Over time, survivor species of the holly genus adapted to different ecological niches. This led to reproductive isolation, an example of ecological speciation. In the Pliocene, around five million years ago, mountain formation diversified the landscape and provided new opportunities for speciation within the genus.
“O ‘brate i sestre zagrobnoĭ zhizni’ v religioznykh verovaniyakh ezidov” (“The brothers and sisters of the afterlife” in the religious beliefs of the Yazidis), Strany i narody Blizhnego i Srednego Vostoka [Yerevan] 13, 1985, pp. 262-71.
Resources >Modern Period>20th Cent.>History of Israel>State of Israel The Jewish History Resource Center, Project of the Dinur Center for Research in Jewish History, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
White House Down ek 2013 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Roland Emmerich ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Channing Tatum, Jamie Foxx, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Jason Clarke acting kiye the.
We regret that you receive this message in English; we intended to use banners to notify you in your native language but there was both, human and technical resistance.
Comrie, Bernard. "The recognition of the Piawi language family." In Tom Dutton, Malcolm Ross and Darrell Tryon, eds. The language game: Papers in memory of Donald C. Laycock. 111-113. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics, 1992.
Teng Coonty (simplifeed Cheenese: 藤县; traditeeonal Cheenese: 藤縣; pinyin: Téng Xiàn) is a coonty o eastren Guangxi, Cheenae. It is unner the admeenistration o Wuzhou. As o 2002, it haed a population o 930,000 residin in an aurie o 3,943 km2 (1,522 sq mi).
The ocean has also contributed significantly to the development and economy of the countries around it. Besides its major transatlantic transportation and communication routes, the Atlantic offers abundant petroleum deposits in the sedimentary rocks of the continental shelves and the world's richest fishing resources, especially in the waters covering the shelves. The major species of fish caught are cod, haddock, hake, herring, and mackerel. The most productive areas include the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, the shelf area off Nova Scotia, Georges Bank off Cape Cod, the Bahama Banks, the waters around Iceland, the Irish Sea, the Dogger Bank of the North Sea, and the Falkland Banks. Eel, lobster, and whales have also been taken in great quantities. All these factors, taken together, tremendously enhance the Atlantic's great commercial value. Because of the threats to the ocean environment presented by oil spills, marine debris, and the incineration of toxic wastes at sea, various international treaties exist to reduce some forms of pollution.
The Angelus is usually accompanied by the ringing of the Angelus bell, which is a call to prayer and to spread good-will to everyone. The angel referred to in the prayer is Gabriel, a messenger of God who revealed to Mary that she would conceive a child to be born the Son of God. (Luke 1:26-38).
Use chenodiol regularly to get the most benefit. It may take up to 12 months before your symptoms improve. Chenodiol is usually given for no longer than 2 years.
Saginaw - Saint Benedict - St. Helens - St. Joseph - Saint Louis - St. Paul - Salem - Sams Valley - Sandy - Scappoose - Scholls - Scio - Scottsburg - Scotts Mills - Seal Rock - Seaside - Selma - Seneca - Shady - Shady Cove - Shaniko - Shedd - Sheridan - Sherwood - Siletz - Siltcoos - Silver Lake - Silverton - Sisters - Sitkum - Sixes - Skipanon - Sodaville - South Beach - Sprague River - Spray - Springbrook* - Springfield - Stafford - Stanfield - Stayton - Sublimity - Sulphur Springs - Summer Lake - Summerville - Sumner - Sumpter - Sunriver - Sutherlin - Svensen - Sweet Home - Swisshome
Hagen Kleinert, Path Integrals in Quantum Mechanics, Statistics, Polymer Physics, and Financial Markets, 3rd edition, World Scientific (Singapore, 2004)(also available online here)
For centuries, juit haes been an integral pairt o the cultur o Bengal, in the hail soothwast o Bangladesh an some pairts o Wast Bengal, Indie. Durin the Breetish Raj in the 19t an early 20t centuries, muckle o the raw juit feebre o Bengal wis cairied aff tae the Unitit Kinrick, whaur it wis than processed in mills concentrated in Dundee. At first, endue tae its texture, it coud anerly be processed by hand till it wis diskivered in that ceety that treatin it wi whaul ile, it coud be treatit by machine The industry boomed ("juit wabster" wis a recognised tred occupation in the 1901 UK census), but this tred haed lairgely stintit by aboot 1970 endue tae the kythin o synthetic feebres.
An rol ma a dhrehevyansow an uhella yn Memphis a wradheg tourow ebren y’n cita S.U. a Memphis, Tennessi der uhelder. Drehevyans an uhella yn Memphis yw 100 North Main a 37 leur, hag a omsav 430 ts (131 m) hag a veu kowlwrys yn 1965.
Horace Kephart, Our Southern Highlanders. Rev. ed. New York: Macmillan, 1922. Reprinted as Our Southern Highlanders: A Narrative of Adventure in the Southern Appalachians and a Study of Life among the Mountaineers . With an Introduction by George Ellison. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1976.
Template:About Template:Book of Mormon The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement that adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421. It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as The Book of Mormon: An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi.
The minuscule (lowercase) fairm as 'r' developed through several variations on the caipital fairm. In haundwritin it wis common nae tae close the bottom o the luip but continue intae the leg, savin an extra pen stroke. The luip-leg stroke shortened intae the simple arc uised the day. Anither minuscule, r rotunda (ꝛ), kept the luip-leg stroke but dropped the vertical stroke, altho it fell oot o uise aroond the 18t century.
Ike Clanton was never the leader of the Cowboys. Old Man Clanton controlled the gang until he was killed in 1881 and leadership of the gang fell to Curly Bill Brocis and Johnny Ringo.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30
Pacific City - Paisley - Parkdale - Paulina - Payette Junction - Pendleton - Perrydale - Philomath - Phoenix - Pilot Rock - Pine - Pine Grove - Pinehurst - Pistol River - Pittsburg - Pleasant Hill - Pleasant Valley - Plush - Pondosa - Portland - Port Orford - Post - Powell Butte - Powers - Prairie City - Pratum - Prescott - Prineville - Progress* - Prospect - Provolt
Wikimedia Foundation is getting ready to push out 1.19 to all the WMF-hosted wikis. As we finish wrapping up our code review, you can test the new version right now on beta.wmflabs.org. For more information, please read the release notes or the start of the final announcement.
She lus 'sy chynney Plantaginaceae ee cabbag Pherick (Plantago major). T'ee dooghyssagh da'n Oarpey as yn Aishey veanagh as twoaie. T'ee jeant dooghyssagh ayns çheeraghyn elley. Ta ymmyd jeant jee myr lus lhee noi lhottaghyn crackan, chammah's myr tey noi çhingyssyn gailley, as er son ymmodee çhingyssyn elley. Ta ny kemmigyn lhee aucubin, allantoin as gummalaght aynjee. Chammah's shen, ta duillagyn yn-ee eck.
Mast, C. Z. and Robert E. Simpson (1942). Annals of the Conestoga Valley in Lancaster, Berks and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania. Scottdale, Pennsilfaani : Mennonite Publishing House, p. 232.
We look forward to a constructive discussion with you, so we can make a more informed decision together on this important topic. Keegan (WMF) (talk) 06:47, 16 января 2014 (UTC)
Ta'n troorane jiarg cowraghey yn strepey er son seyrsnys, as ta'n daa rollage ghoo soilshaghey yn daa phreeu-ellan. Ta ny daaghyn eayney, buigh as doo nyn naaghyn ooilley-Affrickagh.
Carvajal started in Real Madrid's triumphs in the 2014 UEFA Super Cup over compatriots Sevilla FC, and in that year's FIFA Club World Cup final against Argentina's San Lorenzo de Almagro. In the first leg of the Champions League's semi-finals, on 5 May 2015, he conceded a penalty by fouling Carlos Tevez, with the Juventus F.C. forward converting the spot-kick to defeat the Spaniards 2–1.
Cockrill, W. R. (1977). The water buffalo. Rome: Animal Production and Health Series No. 4. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
The Itsekiri's are a riverine Yoruboid people who live in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria. They maintain a distinct identity separate from other Yoruboid people. Their neighbours are the Urhobos, The Ijaws, and the Mahin Ilaje, a Yoruba clan.
The 2005 Qatar motorcycle Grand Prix was the fourteenth round of the 2005 MotoGP Championship. It took place on the weekend of 29 September-1 October 2005 at the Losail International Circuit.
Pencilline Neomycine Streptomycine Erythromycine Poly mixin – B Gramcidine Methicilline Cloxacilline Quinocilline Amikacine Tylosin Bacitracin Clostin Lincomycin Novobiocin Vancomycin Rifamycin
Constantine ek 2005 mein bana English, Filipino, Tagalog film hain. Yea film USA, Germany mein Francis Lawrence ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Keanu Reeves, Rachel Weisz, Shia LaBeouf, Djimon Hounsou acting kiye the.
Global Gang, amazing real life stories about kids around the world who have been 'forced to flee' on this website for 7–14 year olds. Resources for teachers on the sister website Learn
-dzamwara (Be casual, offhand, confused in speech). Pakubvunzwa zvemhosva akadzamwarika: when questioned about his case he gave confused and contradictory answers.
Höpel, Thomas: The French-German Borderlands: Borderlands and Nation-Building in the 19th and 20th Centuries, European History Online, Mainz: Institute of European History, 2010, retrieved: December 17, 2012.
"Over fifty townships in this parish were made desolate, and the tenants were sent hither and thither [...] and when they found a resting place at all in there native land, it was on the poorest scraps, rocks and bogs,[...] subdiving their lots, and intensifiying their poverty." (de réir MacAskill])
She revealed on Julie 1999 in the late show Otro Rollo wi Adal Ramones that she wis kidnapped for ower 2 months when she wis 12 years auld in Durango, Mexico.
Jack S. Blocker et al. (eds.): Alcohol and Temperance in History. An International Encyclopedia, Santa Barbara 2003 (esp. on the period after 1800, which is not mentioned in this article).
Dinesh Chand (janam: 6 February 1972), Fiji ke ek professional golfer hae jon ki jaada kar ke Japan Golf Tour me khele hae aur isme uske jiittiin dafe bhais hae.
Dickens ke book me rahaa Oliver Twist, Great Expectations, David Copperfield, Nicholas Nickelby and The Old Curiosity Shop, A Christmas Carol.
We have covered 12 different types of ways people tend to lead organizations or other people. Not all of these styles would deem fit for all kind of situations, you can read them through to see which one fits right to your company or situation.
[null The transactional leader works through creating clear structures whereby it is clear what is required of their subordinates, and the rewards that they get for following orders. Punishments are not always mentioned, but they are also well-understood and formal systems of discipline are usually in place.]
"Bolivian President Evo Morales on Latin America, U.S. Foreign Policy and the Role of the Indigenous People of Bolivia"—Interview on Democracy Now!
Philip Cortelyou Johnson (July 8, 1906 – January 25, 2005) was an American architect. He is best known for his works of Modern architecture, including the Glass House in New Canaan, Connecticut, and his works of postmodern architecture, particularly 550 Madison Avenue which was designed for AT&T, and 190 South La Salle Street in Chicago. In 1978, he was awarded an American Institute of Architects Gold Medal and in 1979 the first Pritzker Architecture Prize.
Plantilla:Use mdy dates Plantilla:Main other The NFL on CBS refers to coverage of the National Football League on the CBS Television Network, which has aired games since 1956.
Mis Du yw an unnegves mis y'n vledhen y'n calans gregorek, gans dek dydh war'n ugans. An hanow a dhe diworth an Latynek novem, rag naw – Mis Du o yn tallethvos an nawves mis y'n vledhen, kens mis Genver ha mis Hwevrer a vue gorrys ynni.
Dying to Do Letterman ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Joke Fincioen, Biagio Messina ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jim Gaffigan, Debbie Mazan, Steve Mazan, Kevin Nealon acting kiye the.
It is often useful to think of power quality as a compatibility problem: is the equipment connected to the grid compatible with the events on the grid, and is the power delivered by the grid, including the events, compatible with the equipment that is connected? Compatibility problems always have at least two solutions: in this case, either clean up the power, or make the equipment tougher.
Eversharp, a maker of mechanical pencils teamed up with Eberhard-Faber in May 1945 to license the design for sales in the United States. At about the same time a U.S. businessman saw a Biro pen in a store in Buenos Aires. He purchased several samples and returned to the U.S. to found the Reynolds International Pen Company, producing the Biro design without license as the Reynolds Rocket. He managed to beat Eversharp to market in late 1945; the first ballpoint pens went on sale at Gimbels department store in New York City on 29 October 1945 for US$12.50 each (about US$130 of today's money). This pen was widely known as the rocket in the U.S. into the late 1950s.
Sánchez del-Pino, Ivonne, Thomas Borsch, et Timothy J. Motle. 2009. trnL-F and rpl16 Sequence Data and Dense Taxon Sampling Reveal Monophyly of Unilocular Anthered Gomphrenoideae (Amaranthaceae) and an Improved Picture of Their Internal Relationships. Systematic Botany 34(1):57-67.
Abbott and Costello Meet the Keystone Kops ek 1955 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Charles Lamont ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Bud Abbott, Lou Costello, Fred Clark, Lynn Bari acting kiye the.
In human anatomy, the biceps brachii (/ˈbaɪsɛps ˈbræki.aɪ/), commonly kent as the biceps, is a twa-heidit muscle that lies on the upper airm atween the shouder an the elbae.
In 2015, Scott Woodruff relocated from San Diego to a home in the woods in the outskirts of Santa Cruz. Immediately after relocating to his new home, Woodruff built Ruffwood Studios where he recorded the subsequent Stick Figure album, Set in Stone. Woodruff found much inspiration for this album from the redwood forest just outside of his studio.
Alexandrina Victoria, kent as Queen Victoria (born 24 Mey 1819 in Kensington Palace, Lunnon; diet 22 Januar 1901 at Osborne Hoose, Isle o Wight) wis Queen o the Unitit Kinrick o Great Breetain an Ireland frae 1837 until her daith in 1901, an Empress o Indie frae 1877 until her daith in 1901. She is the seicont-langest reignin Breetish monarch (efter Elizabeth II) an gave her name tae the Victorian Era.
The Edinburgh Encyclopædia wis an encyclopaedia in 18 vollums, prentit an published bi William Blackwood an eeditit bi David Brewster atween 1808 an 1830.
During the 1977–78 season, CBS held a H-O-R-S-E competition at halftime of the Game of the Week telecasts. Again, Don Criqui hosted with Mendy Rudolph officiating. 32 players, including Rick Barry, Pete Maravich, George Gervin, JoJo White, Doug Collins, Paul Westphal and Bob McAdoo, competed in a round-robin single-elimination tournament each week. Barry was eliminated in the first round by journeyman Earl Tatum of the Los Angeles Lakers. Maravich and Westphal made it all the way to the final, which was scheduled to take place at halftime of Game 2 of the 1978 NBA Finals. However, Maravich was injured and unavailable, so CBS instead had Westphal shoot a free-throw against "Bag-Man" (who was actually Rick Barry, who was on the announcing team, wearing a paper sack over his head). Westphal, with a bag over his head as well, made the free throw while Barry missed, and CBS awarded him the trophy.
In its effects subreption is equivalent to obreption. Subreption may be intentional and malicious, or attributable solely to ignorance or inadvertence. It may affect the primary, substantial reason or motive of the grant, or constitute merely a secondary or impellent cause of the concession.
Wilthew, P.1981. The effect of cleaning treatments on the long term tarnishing of silver. Conservation Research report III 13, The British Museum, London.
Ngoma: The Early Years, 1948-1960 Popular African Music (1996). Includes the original recording of "Marie-Louise", 1948 (Antoine Kolosoy "Wendo" / Henri Bowane)
Andre Gsponer; Jean-Pierre Hurni (1970). "Paper discussing the number of antiprotons required to ignite a thermonuclear weapon". In G. Velarde and E. Minguez, eds., Proceedings of the th International Conference on Emerging Nuclear Energy Systems, Madrid, June /July , (World Scientific, Singapore, 1987) 166--169 (Arxiv.org) 4 (30).arXiv:physics/0507114.
Within two years of forming a live band, Stick Figure toured with other major acts including Rebelution, Slightly Stoopid, Collie Buddz, Passafire, Tribal Seeds and The Expendables. They performed at various internationally recognized festivals including Reggae on the River, Cali Roots Festival, Life is Beautiful, Closer to the Sun, Levitate, and Bonnaroo, amongst others.
Kerby Reymundo - Philippine Basketball Association player where he plays power forward and team leader to Purefoods TJ Giants and is currently a member of Team Pilipinas National Basketball Team.Template:Citation needed
Jerzy Kawalerowicz, yang sebelumnya menyutradarai film-film seperti Cellulose (1953), Under the Phrygian Star (1954), The Shade (1956), The Real End of the Great War (1957), Night Train (1959) dan Mother Joan of the Angels (1961), pada 1960an memakai sebuah novel buatan Bolesław Prus yang berjudul Pharaoh.
Jih ka jipeuteubiet cit 7 boh jangeun Internasional, di antarajih nakeuh, "Complicated", "Sk8er Boi", "I'm with You", "Don't Tell Me", "My Happy Ending", "Girlfriend", ngon "When You're Gone".
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey ek 2012 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA, New Zealand mein Peter Jackson ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Ian McKellen, Martin Freeman, Richard Armitage, Ken Stott acting kiye the.
The creation o a settlement wis proposed in 1930 bi Sergey Kirov; construction began in 1932. The main street wis namit efter Kirov. Offeecial toun status wis grantit in 1949.
Bilmes, J. (1996). Problems And Resources In Analyzing Northern Thai Conversation For English Language Readers. Journal of Pragmatics, 26(2), 171-188.
If a player kicks the ball out of play at the other end of the field, the other team kicks the ball back into play from directly in front of the goal (a goal kick);
In the East, at the distance 30 kilometres (19 miles) from Paris and in the heart of Marne-la-Vallée, Bussy-Saint-Georges has a privileged position thanks to a high-density motorway network. From Bussy, the direct access to the A4 motorway and the nearby A104 offer easy access to the whole country.
Families throughout Han China made ritual sacrifices of animals and foodstuffs to deities, spirits, and ancestors at temples and shrines, in the belief that these items could be utilized by those in the spiritual realm. It was thought that each person had a two-part soul: the spirit-soul (hun 魂) which journeyed to the afterlife paradise of immortals (xian), and the body-soul (po 魄) which remained in its grave or tomb on earth and was only reunited with the spirit-soul through a ritual ceremony. These tombs were commonly adorned with uniquely decorated hollow clay tiles that function also as a doorjamb to the tomb. Otherwise known as tomb tiles, these artifacts feature holes in the top and bottom of the tile allowing it to pivot. Similar tiles have been found in the Chengdu area of Sichuan province in south-central China.
Greco's skateboard and clothing brand "Hammers" was launched in October 2014 as part of Bakerboys Distribution. Greco explained in August 2014 that the brand is "based on individuality, the pure moment of creation ... It's just based on creating." In the first Hammers catalog, Greco explains that the company's products are made in the U.S. "which in turn creates American jobs and manufactures better products."
Ravindra, B.M. (1994) Geo Karnataka: An Overview.in B. M. Ravindra & N. Ranganathan (editors) "Geo Karnataka: Mysore Geological Department Centenary Volume". Karnataka Assistant Geologists Association, Department of Mines & Geology, Bangalore pp:306-428.
Clark, Ross. 2009. *Leo Tuai: A comparative lexical study of North and Central Vanuatu languages. Canberra ACT.: Pacific Linguistics (Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies, The Australian National University).
Ta tarmaynys yn RU jeant seose (ayns oardagh lhargee mooadys) jeh tarmaynysyn Hostyn, ny h-Albey, Vretin as Nerin Hwoaie. Rere leahysyn coonree margee, ta'n Reeriaght Unnaneysit ny wheigoo tarmaynys smoo er y theihll as ny nah harmaynys moo 'syn Oarpey lurg ny Germaan.
It is threatened by habitat degradation due to agricultural activities, water pollution, hydroelectric development, and pine plantations. For example, the Itaipu Dam destroyed populations in Paraná.
Mastey ny caslys-skeealyn eddyr-voggyl smoo leah va T.H.E. Fox, va goll er soilshaghey magh er Compuserve as Quantum Link ayns 1986; Where the Buffalo Roam, va goll er soilshaghey magh er FTP as usenet ayns 1991; Doctor Fun, va goll er cur er yn eddyr-voggyl ayns 1993, Netboy which was published on the web in the summer of 1994,; as NetComics Weekly liorish Finnish Comics Society, ren goaill toshiaght ayns 1994 as hiank er derrey 1999 (ny 2001 ayns Finnlynnish). Ny caslys-skeealyn eddyr-voggyl foddey-beayn ta ayn foast, t'ad goaill stiagh Art Comics Daily (ghow toshiaght ayn Mee Vayrnt 1995), Argon Zark! (Mean Souree 1995), Kevin and Kell (Mean Fouyir 1995), as Slow Wave (Mee Houney 1995).
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 46,408 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 699.20 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 9808.
There are over 7,500 "live" codes (for partners actively connected to the BIC network) and an estimated 10,000 additional BIC codes which can be used for manual transactions.
By constitutional requirement, elections to the Lok Sabha must be held at an interval of five years or whenever parliament is dissolved by the president. The previous election, to the 15th Lok Sabha, was conducted in April–May 2009, and its term will naturally expire on 31 May 2014. The election is being organised and conducted by the Election Commission of India (ECI) and was held in multiple phases, to better handle the large electoral base and security concerns.
Omoigawa Station (思川駅, Omoigawa-eki) is a railway station on the Ryōmō Line in Oyama, Tochigi Prefecture, Japan, operated by East Japan Railway Company (JR East).
Seats o govrenment in mukkil sub-kintra stewartries is aften cried "capitals", but this is forordnar the case anerlie in kintras wi sum amoont o federalism, whaur mukkil sub-kintra stewartries haes an element o sovereignty. In unitary kintras, "admeenistrative centur" or ither siclyk terms is forordnar uised. For byspel, the seat o government in a state o the Unitit States o Americae is forordnar cried its "caipital", but the main ceetie in a region o Ingland isna. At lawer admeenistrative subdiveesions, terms sic as coontie toun, coontie seat, or burgh seat is forordnar uised.
D. C. Johanson, T. D. White und Y. Coppens: A New Species of the Genus Australopithecus (Primates: Hominidae) from the Pliocene of Eastern Africa. Kirtlandia Nr. 28 (1978)
Maist fowk gree that the name Culiacán apparently comes frae the wird colhuacan, which can mean "palace o snakes", but tradeetionally the maist acceptit translation wad be "place o those who adore the creuk god Coltzin". Afore the Spaniards arrivit frae Europe, this steid haed been a smaw Indie dounset syne 628 whan Amerindians haed first foondit it.
DeFreeze was suspected by many of being a government provocateur, but his race and prison time gave him unquestioned authority in the SLA. He also had sexual dominion over women in the group. They acquired resources by robbing the homes in the Bay Area. The first proposed operation, assassinating the head of the state penitentiaries, was cancelled because of possible repercussions for inmates; instead Marcus Foster, a black educator regarded by the SLA as a fascist who had brought police onto school campuses, was targeted and killed.
Lëtzebuerger Online Dictionnaire (Luxembourgish Online Dictionary) with German, French and Portuguese translations created by the CPLL, the official regulator of the Luxembourgish language
1854年：《蔓足亞綱》A Monograph of the Sub-class Cirripedia, with Figures of all the Species. The Balanidae (or Sessile Cirripedes); the Verrucidae, etc.
A unglie (In Bangladesh Angul) ("finger") is an obsolete unit of length equal to three-fourths of an inch (1.905 cm) that was used in India, Bangladesh and Pakistan. After metrification in this countries, the unit became obsolete.
Benz, Brett W.; Robbins, Mark B. & Peterson, A. Townsend (2006): Evolutionary history of woodpeckers and allies (Aves: Picidae): Placing key taxa on the phylogenetic tree. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 40: 389–399.
The Farm of Génitoy. The name, genesterium in Latin or genestay in Old French, later génitoire or génitoy, originates from the abundant Genista flowers. The farm was also an important fief with a castle. In 1672, Madame de Montespan had a baby in the castle of Génitoy, one of the Louis XIV's son: Louis-César de Bourbon, count of Vexin.
1962-1963, 1963-1964, 1964-1965, 1965-1966, 1972-1973, 1975-1976, 1981-1982, 1984-1985, 1990-1991, 1992-1993, 1993-1994, 1994-1995, 1998-1999, 1999-2000, 2000-2001, 2004-2005
While initially elected at the 1997 and 2002 elections as a member of the Labor Party, he moved to the Greens in early 2003. He ultimately resigned from the Greens on 8 February 2006 and ran in the 2006 election as an independent and won. His chances of retaining his seat in 2006 had been essentially written off by most commentators after his decision to become an Independent MP, but he won a narrow victory after a very low Liberal primary vote and an endorsement from popular Independent MP Nick Xenophon. He narrowly lost at the 2010 election despite an improved vote, due to finishing third after all non-major party preferences had been distributed.
Chrysopelea ornata is diurnal and arboreal. They are frequently seen moving up a coconut palm, or up vertical rock faces in graceful curves, gripping the somewhat uneven surfaces with their scales. They tend to be nervous, fast-moving snakes, and will attempt to flee if disturbed, but will not generally hesitate to bite if handled. They are mildly venomous, but the venom is not considered to be dangerous to humans. It is intended to assist in subduing fast moving, arboreal prey.
She was born and raised in Poughkeepsie, New York, and travelled to Palo Alto, California in 1963 with her older brother Don shortly after she was expelled from high school. In early 1964, Garcia met Neal Cassady, who introduced her to Ken Kesey and his friends, one of whom gave her the name "Mountain Girl". Cassady took her to La Honda, California, Kesey's base of operations, where she quickly joined the inner circle of Pranksters and became romantically involved with Kesey, having a daughter by him named Sunshine. The Grateful Dead song "Here Comes Sunshine" may or may not be an allusion to Garcia's and Kesey's daughter – the Dead were fond of lyrics having double, often personal meanings. When Kesey was a fugitive, Garcia had a relationship with another Prankster named George Walker who would become her husband in 1966. The marriage between Garcia and Walker did not last long and they separated in December 1966 and were divorced in 1978. She took up with Jerry Garcia after splitting with Walker, but they did not marry for many years after.
23.10 - 24.10 - 25.10 - 26.10 - 27.10 - 28.10 - 29.10 - 30.10 - 31.10 - 01.11 - 02.11 - 03.11 - 04.11 - 05.11 - 06.11 - 07.11 - 08.11 - 09.11 - 10.11 - 11.11 - 12.11
Mount Sinabung in Karo, North Sumatra, on Thursday (30/7), spewing hot clouds 14 times with a height of up to 4,500 meters. It includes the highest frequency since Sinabung Awas status in June. In fact, at 7:05 eruption as far as 700 meters.
Johnson, at the age of ninety-eight, died in his sleep while at his Glass House retreat on January 25, 2005. He was survived by his partner of 45 years, David Whitney, who died later that year at age 66.
We want to find out as much as we can from you about VisualEditor and how it helps your Wikipedia, and having local pages is a great way to start. We also encourage you to leave feedback on Mediawiki where the community can offer ideas, opinions, and point out bugs that may still exist in the software that need to be reported to Bugzilla. If you are able to speak for the concerns of others in English on MediaWiki or locally I encourage you to help your community to be represented in this process.
Jean-Baptiste Lamarck: works and heritage, online materials about Lamarck (23,000 files of Lamarck's herbarium, 11,000 manuscripts, books, etc.) edited online by Pietro Corsi (Oxford University) and realised by CRHST-CNRS in France.
‫بىر: ‫a, a body of, a piece of, an, be a unit, be at one, handful, nothing but, one, one...the other, side, single, singleton, unifying, with one accord
We're now getting ready to bring Notifications to almost all other Wikimedia sites, and are aiming for a 22 October deployment, as outlined in this release plan. It is important that notifications is translated for all of the languages we serve.
Her memoir, titled Every Secret Thing, was published in 1981. In contradiction of assertions that she had been given immunity on the Crocker robbery, the book caused authorities to consider bringing a new prosecution against her. In a 2009 interview for an NBC program on the case, she described the prosecutor's suggestions that she had been in a consensual relationship with Wolfe as an insult to rape victims and "outrageous".
In Ian Fleming's James Bond novelles an the derived films, the 00 Section o MI6 is conseedered the secret service's elite. A 00 (for ordinar rade "Double O" an denoted in Fleming's novelles bi the letters "OO" rather than the digits "00") is a field augent that houds a leecence tae kill in the field, at his or her merciment, tae throu ony meession. The novelle Moonraker estaiblishes that the section by-ordinar has three augents concurrently; the film series, beginnin wi Thunderball, estaiblishes the nummer o 00 augents at a meenimum o 9, wi the likeliheid o maire.
Michael Sletcher, 'Montréal', in James Ciment, ed., Colonial America: An Encyclopedia of Social, Political, Cultural, and Economic History, (5 vols., N.Y., 2005).
Ingmar Bergman (14 July 1918 – 30 July 2007) ek Swedish stage aur film director rahaa. Uske janam Uppsala, Sweden me ek Lutheran minister, jon ki Danish descent ke rahaa, ke ghare bhais rahaa.
Brodhead, Michael J. 2012. "The Panama Canal: Writings of the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers Officers Who Conceived and Built It." US Army Corps of Engineers History Office, Alexandria, VA.
1st place in Story of the Year, Freedom of the Press, Best Explanatory Journalism, Community Service, Best Investigative/In-depth Story or Series, Best Spot News Story, Best Non-staff Story, Best Information Graphic, Best Local Non-Staff Column in 2015, Nevada Press Association
In 1961, Milwaukee station WISN-TV, a then-CBS affiliate, opted not to carry that year's annual telecast of The Wizard of Oz, running a Green Bay Packers football game instead. In contrast to the infamous Heidi telecast in 1968, the popularity of The Wizard of Oz as an annual TV event at that time was such that the station ran the movie locally at a later date.
A surge protector or simple capacitor or varistor can protect against most overvoltage conditions, while a lightning arrester protects against severe spikes.
Ta ny duillagyn anmagh gaase tra t'ee skeaylley rassyn. T'ad gaase er gish elley, ass buinney elley, as wheesh as 30cm er yrjid. Ta duillag lomarcan ec dagh gass. T'eh 10-20cm er lhiurid, cree-chrooagh ny kiarkylagh, as ta feeacklyn mooarey ec yn oirr echey. Ta fynney meein bane as cuishlinyn bassagh er yn eaghtyr s'inshley echey' ta'n eaghtyr s'yrjey rea as glass.
Imfall adlea monnipur somsthanachi ani atanchea monnipur rajeachi hi rajdhani.Imfall ani nombul nhomyam'modlea eka sundor degnnant, somudrothorasaun sumar 800 mi. Unchayecher hem xar voslam.
In many plants, a flower is its most colourful part. We say the plant 'flowers', 'is flowering' or 'is in flower' when this colourful part begins to grow bigger and open out. There are many different kinds of flowers in different areas in the world. Even in the coldest places, for example the Arctic, flowers can grow during a few months.
The name o the ceety means "Roond Lagoon". It wis foondit on 12 Apryle 1876 bi the advancin troops o Colonel Conrado Excelso Villegas, unner orders frae the Meenister o War Adolfo Alsina, as the center o operations o the North Diveesion o the Border Commandancy, durin the Conquest o the Desert (the campaign tae subject the territories oreeginally occupeed bi aboriginal tribes tae the govrenment o Buenos Aires). The partido wis offeecially creatit on 28 Julie 1886.
Mathematical economic is an approach analysis in which the economists make use of mathematical symbols in the statment of problem and also draw upon knowen mathematical theorems to aid in reasoning. Khanzaman zaheer
2003 me, Nand ke Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase, Minister for Drainage and Flood Protection & Management ke post offer karis rahaa, lekin FLP ii offer ke nai liis.
Fowk o different Kazakh tribes haed the golden eagle on thair banners for centuries. The eagle seembolizes the pouer o the state. For the modren naition o Kazakhstan the eagle is a seembol o unthirldom, freedom an flight tae future.
The US women's 4x200m swimming team of Natalie Coughlin, Carly Piper, Dana Vollmer and Kaitlin Sandeno win gold, smashing the long standing world record set by the German Democratic Republic in 1987.
A defining characteristic of wiki technology is the ease with which pages can be created and updated. Generally, there is no review before modifications are accepted. Many wikis are open to alteration by the general public without requiring them to register user accounts. Sometimes logging in for a session is recommended, to create a "wiki-signature" cookie for signing edits automatically. Many edits, however, can be made in real-time and appear almost instantly online. This can facilitate abuse of the system. Private wiki servers require user authentication to edit pages, and sometimes even to read them.
Ta golf ny sheyoo spoyrt smoo ennoil, rere commeeys, 'syn RU as ta The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, ayns Nalbin, coorse thie yn spoyrt.
In August 2007, Gordon Gano was the subject of a lawsuit brought by bassist Brian Ritchie. The lawsuit stems partly from Gano's authorization of the use of "Blister" in a Wendy's commercial. In 2008, the song was featured on a Foster's Lager "Stealing Shadows" advertisement.
Kudzingaidza kana kushingaidza (Interrupt. Bother. Thwart). Kuchema kwomwana kunodzingaidza amai kuita basa mumba: the child interrupts its mother in her housework by crying.
The Atlantic Ocean consists of four major water masses. The North and South Atlantic central waters constitute the surface waters. The sub-Antarctic intermediate water extends to depths of 1,000 metres (3,300 ft). The North Atlantic deep water reaches depths of as much as 4,000 metres (13,200 ft). The Antarctic bottom water occupies ocean basins at depths greater than 4,000 metres (13,200 ft).
Beginning in Week 4 of the 1986 season, CBS adapted a theme that has affectionately been referred to as the Pots and Pans (because of the background notes often resembled the banging of pots and pans) theme. This particular theme was an intense, kinetic, synthesizer-laced theme. In 1989, the Pots and Pans theme was revamped to give it a more smooth, electronic style. This theme was also known for integrating the play-by-play announcer's voice-over introduction into the theme, it integrated three voice-over segments, one for the visiting team, home team, and game storyline to set the game storyline into the broadcast. This practice was common with CBS Sports' themes of the 1980s.
1999 se 2006 talak, Fiji ke House of Representatives me Lautoka City Indian Communal Constituency ke Fiji Labour Party (FLP) ke taraf se represent karis. Uu 1999 aur 2001 e lection jtis rahaa. 1999 se 2000 talak uu Mahendra Chaudhry ke sarkar me Minister for Local Government, State Planning, and Housing rahaa.
1 Pedru / 1 Peter 1 : 19 - Tumi tumchea purvozam koddchi polkea jivitachi chal ghetloli; tê chalintlim Devan tumkam soddoileant, nhoi koslêch vinaxi vostu vorvim, nhoi mhonn rupea vô bhangara vorvim, punn nixkollonk ani khotavinn Menddreachea, mhonngê Kristachea, omolik rogta vorvim: hacho ugddas dhôrat. / but with the precious blood of Christ as of a spotless unblemished lamb.
(Apologies if this message isn't in your language. Please consider translating it, as well as the full version of this announcement on Meta)
ROBERTSON, C. J. R.. (1998) “Towards a new taxonomy of albatrosses”, Albatross Biology and Conservation. Chipping Norton, Australia: Surrey Beatty & Sons Ltd., p. 13–19.
Facing Mirrors ek 2011 mein bana German, Persian film hain. Yea film Iran mein Negar Azarbayjani ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Shayesteh Irani, Qazal Shakeri, Homayoun Ershadi, Maryam Boubani acting kiye the.
Clement Richard Attlee, 1a Yurl Atlee, KG, OM, CH, PC, FRS (3 mis Genver 1883 - 8 mis Hedra 1967) o Pennmenyster Ruwvaneth Unys a 1945 dhe 1951.
Oraib S Nawash and Ahmed S Al Horani The most important medicinal plants in Wadi Araba desert in South West Jordan: a review article, Advances in Environmental Biology, 5 (2),:418-425,2011(Principalele plante medicinale din pustiul Araba din sud vestul Iordaniei)
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia ke capital city hae. Ii African Union ke bhi capital hae. Addis Ababa ek cityaur ek state bhi hae. Ii city 80 des ke log rahe hae jon ki 80 bhasa me baat kare hae. Ii city me Christian, Muslim, aur Jewish log rahe hae. Addis Ababa sea level 2,500 muppar hae. Iske population lagbhag chaar million log hae.
Wikipedia. 2005a. Dialect [online]. np: Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia, 24 February [cited 26 February 2005]. Available from World Wide Web: [2].
In places where it is readily available, CT scan has become the diagnostic test of choice, especially in adults. A properly performed CT scan with modern equipment has a detection rate (sensitivity) of over 95% and a similar specificity. Signs of appendicitis on CT scan include lack of contrast (oral dye) in the appendix and direct visualization of appendiceal enlargement (greater than 6 mm in diameter on cross section). The inflammation caused by appendicitis in the surrounding peritoneal fat (so called "fat stranding") can also be observed on CT, providing a mechanism to detect early appendicitis and a clue that appendicitis may be present even when the appendix is not well seen. Thus, diagnosis of appendicitis by CT is made more difficult in very thin patients and in children, both of whom tend to lack significant fat within the abdomen. In most cases, however, appendicitis is a clinical diagnosis and, due to the high radiation dose involved, CT scans are only used when the diagnosis is in doubt (e.g. atypical history) or if there are other considerations involved.
Oludotun Jacobs (to gbajumo lasan bi Olu Jacobs, ojoibi July 11, 1942), je osere ara Naijiria . He has starred in several British television series and international films. Ni 2007 o gba Ebun Akademi Filmu Afrika bi Osere Okunrin To Darajulo ni Ipo Asiwaju.
Akercocke wis a Inglis progressive blackened daith metal baund frae Lunnon, Ingland. They teuk their name frae a talkin monkey in Robert Nye's interpretation o the Faust-legend, an are notable for their hivily Satanic an sexual leerical content.
Psilence is an extremely powerful "Psionic" unable to literally speak and use her voice, hence her name. With this handicap notwithstanding though, she now communicates through her mental telepathy as well as possessing vicious telekinesis which she utilizes in conjunction with her own fighting prowess and unarmed combat skills which works in synergized tandem with her own enhanced physical attributes, notably her agility and stamina has been demonstrated against opponents. Her own psychic abilities have been known to render individuals temporarily comatosed or she can render them permanently unconscious while her empathy furnishes her with "danger sense" which allowed her to sense and perceive the ascension of Chapel after he committed suicide when he confronted Hellspawn.
Created by England-born artist Mark "Fos" Foster, the Heroin brand was named after Fos' addiction to "skateboarding". The global premiere of the Heroin skateboards video, Video Nasty, was held in Los Angeles, US on June 27, 2013 and includes parts from Chet Childress, Deer Man of Dark Woods, Daniel Shimizu, Gou Myagi, Rogie and Tom Day. Foster's debut American art show, "Diamonds And The Rough", was presented at the Kingswell gallery in Los Angeles, US on June 14, 2014.
"تاریخی اعتبار سے، the conquest destroyed the outward form of what had already inwardly decayed; it cleared away with regrettable brutality and thoroughness a system of life which, with all its gifts of order, culture, and law, had worn itself into senile debility, and had lost the powers of regeneration and growth." (ص۔ 43)
John Michael Wallace-Hadrill, translator. The Fourth Book of the Chronicle of Fredegar with its Continuations. Greenwood Press: Connecticut, 1960.
Beauty and the Beast ek 1991 mein bana French, English film hain. Yea film USA mein Gary Trousdale, Kirk Wise ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Robby Benson, Jesse Corti, Rex Everhart, Angela Lansbury acting kiye the.
Even with treatment, there is a chance that your gallstones may return within 5 years. Chenodiol will not prevent gallstones from occurring.
Salomon Levy, USA Former member, INSAG; former design and manufacturing manager, General Electric Atomic Power Equipment Division; honorary member, ASME
After voluntary retirement from the army, હઝારે came to Ralegan Siddhi village in 1975. Initially, he organized the youth of the village into an organization named the Tarun Mandal (Youth Association). He also helped to form the Pani Puravatha Mandals (Water Supply Associations) to ensure proper distribution of water.
Eitinger Leo. Norway. In: Rittner Carlos, Myers Sandra (Hrg.). The Courage to Care. Rescuers of Jews During the Holocaust. New York, London 1986.
1 Juanv / 1 John 1 : 7 - 9 - Punn zoso Dev Uzvaddant asa, toxim ami-i Uzvaddant choltanv zalear, ekamekachea ekcharant ami asanv, ani Tachea Puta Jezuchem rogot sogllea patkantlim amkam xuddh-nirmoll korta. 8 Amkam patok na, oxem ami mhollem zalear, ami amkanch fottoitanv ani sot amchê sovem na. 9 Punn amchim patkam ami vollkhun ghetlim zalear, Dev amchim patkam bhôgxita ani sogllea khotteponnantlim amkam nitoll korta, kiteak To visvaxi ani sogllêch vatten boro. / But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, then we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of his Son Jesus cleanses us from all sin. 8 If we say, We are without sin,” we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. 9 If we acknowledge our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive our sins and cleanse us from every wrongdoing
Kukuma (1. Speak out fearlessly; 2. Discuss important matters) apa kureva kutaura usingatye uchidedemura nokubva wati dyoo pabumbiro renyaya. Akakuma chitungwiza pamusangano: he spoke to the point impressively at the meeting.
Hēo wiexþ ymbe 90 cm on hīehþe, although it may reach heights of 150 cm when supported by taller vegetation and has a distinctly minty smell. It has ovate to ovate-lanceolate, green (sometimes purplish), opposite, toothed, veined leaves which can be either hairy or hairless. Þā stefnas sind oft purpurene. Flowers are tiny, densely crowded, purple, tubular, pinkish to lilac in colour and bloom from July to September. Water mint is pollinated by insects, but can easily be propagated through root cuttings, like other species of mint.
Some mints can be propagated by seed. Growth from seed can be an unreliable method for raising mint for two reasons: mint seeds are highly variable, one might not end up with what one presupposed was planted; some mint varieties are sterile. It is more effective to take and plant cuttings from the runners of healthy mints.
Balquhidder, soondit Bawhidder ([bɔː'ʍɪdər] or [bɔː'ʍʌdər]), frae the Erse Both Chuidir is a wee clachan in the Stirlin cooncil aurie o Scotland. It is owerleukit by the dramatic muntain terrain o the Braes o Balquhidder, at the heid o Loch Voil.
1819: Westöstlicher Diwan, variously translated as The West-Eastern Divan, The Parliament of East and West, or otherwise; collection of poems in imitation of Sufi and other Muslim poetry, including that of Hafez.
In his first season as a senior Carvajal was immediately cast in the reserve team's starting XI, also being the team's captain. In the following campaign, he fared even better (38 games and two goals, playoffs included), as the B's returned to Segunda División after a five-year absence.
1984 (MCMLXXXIV) wis a leap year stairtin on Sunday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter AG), the 1984t year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 984t year o the 2nt millennium, the 84t year o the 20t century, an the 5t year o the 1980s decade.
As of January 2011 engines 1251 and 1252 had been returned to working order by EETC whilst engine 1254 was being overhauled. The two operational locomotives were being used to haul the empty Citynightline train from Munich and Zurich and Euronight Jan Kiepura train from Moscow, Minsk, Warsaw, Prague and Copenhagen between Amsterdam Centraal railway station and Watergraafsmeer. They are also used on charter trains and transporting carriages to and from the EETC workshop in Rotterdam.
When the first Hillcrest Health Committee was established in 1943, the total all-race population was 1135 persons and only the Main Road was hardened. Nkutu Road was hardened with klinker in 1947 and this was followed in 1951 with the hardening of the first portion of Inanda Road. In 1962 tarring of selected roads in the central area began, followed by further roads in 1965. By 1971, when Town Board status was obtained, the total population had grown to 2799 persons.
The call for applications for Wikimania Scholarships to attend Wikimania 2010 in Gdansk, Poland (July 9-11) is now open. The Wikimedia Foundation offers Scholarships to pay for selected individuals' round trip travel, accommodations, and registration at the conference. To apply, visit the Wikimania 2010 scholarships information page, click the secure link available there, and fill out the form to apply. For additional information, please visit the Scholarships information and FAQ pages:
BirdLife International (2004). Streptopelia turtur. 2006 IUCN Lista e Kuqe e Specieve të Kanosura. IUCN 2006. Freskuar më 11 May 2006. Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concern
Arch Linux (or Arch /ˈɑːrtʃ/) is a Linux distribution for computers based on i686 an x86-64(amd64) airchitecturs. However, it is slowly phasing out support for the i686 architecture, which will be dropped completely in November 2017. Arch Linux is componed predominantly o free an open-soorce saftware, an supports commonty involvement.
Romkarank / Romans 8 : 1 - Mhonnttôch, Jezu Krista sovem asat tankam atam koslench khastichem formonn na. / Hence, now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
Upon arrival in Spelenkon as refugees, Chief Bungeni established Bungeni village. Bungeni was a king of sSpilonkeng, but with the introduction of apartheid during the 1960s, Hosi Bungeni was made a Senior Tsonga Chief and ceased being a kingship, by contrast, Hosi Njhakanjhaka was made a Headman who presided over a small village of Shirley, Waterval township, Lemana, Njhakanhjaka village and Mabobo village at a place collectively known as Elim. The authority of Hosi Njhakanhjaka was therefore destroyed over Bungeni Village during Apartheid. Hosi Njhakanhjaka's paramount Chieftaincy was restored in 1995 and is now recognised as a Tsonga paramount Chief.
RODAS, Albeiro, Bogotá, the Gate and Hall of South America, Colombia Passport: Economics, Society and Culture in Colombia, Sihanoukville, Cambodia, 2007.
.i le prenu cu casnu le marde be fi le vimcu be le ka sezga'o .i la'o gy. Would You Have Allowed Bill Gates to have been Born? gy. stidi le nu la bil.geits sezga'o kei .e le nu le vimcu be le sezga'o cu pu fanta le nu la bil.gates. cu jbena
He is credited with bringing into the scientific lexicon the terms "ocular" and "objective" (as used in optics). The lunar crater Rheita is named after him. By extension, the lunar valley Vallis Rheita, where the crater stands at the valley’s northwestern end, is also named after Schyrleus.
Ii tiisra Nourse Line ke jahaaj rahaa jiske naam Ganges rahaa. S.S. Ganges ek 3,475-ton steam waala jahaaj rahaa,jiske Glasgow ke Charles Connell & Company 9 March 1906 me Nourse Line ke khatir launch karis rahaa.
Landscape mey be further reviewed unner the follaein specific categories: landscape airt, cultural landscape, landscape ecology, landscape planning, landscape assessment an landscape design. The activity that modifies the veesible features o an aurie o laund is named Landscapin.
Richard Hinckley Allen: Star-Names and their Meanings; kwa G. E. Stechert New York, Leipzig, London, Paris 1899, ukurasa 45 ff (online kwenye archive.org)
Rumor an aa haes it that members o Sepang ar hichtlie interestit in BMWs o the ///M variant, an as a result BMW haes named ane o their colors efter Sepang.
Andrew S. Tanenbaum - operating systems, MINIX Robert Tarjan - splay tree Shang-Hua Teng - analysis of algorithms Larry Tesler - human-computer interaction, graphical user interface, Apple Macintosh Avie Tevanian - Mach kernel team, NeXT, Mac OS X Bruce H. Thomas - wearable computers, augmented reality Ken Thompson - Unix Walter F. Tichy - RCS Seinosuke Toda - computation complexity, recipient of 1998 Gödel Prize Linus Torvalds - Linux kernel, Git Godfried Toussaint - computational geometry - computational music therory Joseph F Traub - computational complexity of scientific problems John Tukey - FFT Murray Turoff - computer-mediated communication Alan Turing - British pioneer, Turing Machine
Uzomedia was founded in 2014 by Michael Uzoma Michael as a time-filling hobby. Uzoma started blogging in 2014 by writting about celebrities biography and pictures.
Ta fuygh billey cornelian feer ghloo, as t'eh goll fo ayns ushtey. Myr shen, t'ad jannoo greieyn ass. Ren ny shenn Ghreagee ymmyd jeh Cornus mas rish y 7oo eash BNJ er son sleeanyn, shleiyghyn as bowaghyn, as er lheiu dy row eh y fuygh share.
Sēo tūncirice be naman Halga Evroult is magnificent example of the transitional style of the early 13th century. Close to the town is the Abbaye Blanche, founded as a Benedictine convent in 1105 and soon afterwards affiliated to Cîteaux. The church is a perfect example of a Cistercian monastic church of the late 12th century, and portions of the 12th-century cloisters also survive. The ruins of a castle was once the home of the cruel Sir Guillaume de Moretoin and the site of the Gap of Goeblin.
An niver a Northfrisegoryon yw ynter 8,00 ha 10,000, mes nyns eus arhwithransow kewar. Yn peryll yw an yeth awos ny'n dysk fleghes yn lower a leow. Yn Lyver Rudh an Yethow Peryllys gans UNESCO, klassys yw Northfrisek avel peryllys yn tevri. Gwithys yw an yeth gans an Chartour Europek rag Yethow Ranndiryel po Bian.
It radiates heat and light, and every other part of the electromagnetic spectrum, such as radio waves, micro-waves, X-rays, gamma-rays and ultra-violet radiation. The proportions vary according to the mass and age of the star.
“Cultural Heritage Promotion” An exemplary restoration of a historic building in Kasainchis, Addis Abeba, Ethiopia (Addis Abeba November 2005)
2003 me Singh ke, Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase, Minister for State Properties, 13 aur FLP parliamentarians ke saathe cabinet position ke offer karis. lekin FLP iske inkaar kar diis.
Most beryllium is extracted from beryllium hydroxide. One production method is sintering, done by mixing beryl, sodium fluorosilicate, and soda at high temperatures to form sodium fluoroberyllate, aluminium oxide, and silicon dioxide. A solution of sodium fluoroberyllate and sodium hydroxide in water is then used to form beryllium hydroxide by precipitation. Alternatively, in the melt method, powdered beryl is heated to high temperature, cooled with water, then heated again slightly in sulfuric acid, eventually yielding beryllium hydroxide. The beryllium hydroxide from either method then produces beryllium fluoride and beryllium chloride through a somewhat long process. Electrolysis or heating of these compounds can then produce beryllium.
On 15 March 2017, it was reported that Vladimir Putin's character has been cut from the film before an actor was cast for the role. According to The Hollywood Reporter, EuropaCorp's president, Luc Besson, wanted to shift the story’s focus to the rescue mission rather than the politics behind the disaster. One theory noted by The Hollywood Reporter is that nobody at EuropaCorp wanted to be hacked, like happened to the film The Interview, that angered Kim Jong-un and is believed to have sparked the Sony hack in 2014. Putin was just three months into the job as Russian president when the tragedy occurred in 2000. He was supposed to appear as a supporting character in the film in at least five scenes, and was sympathetically portrayed in the original Kursk script, which highlighted why he took the tragedy personally (Putin’s father was a submariner before the war).
Strategic leadership is one that involves a leader who is essentially the head of an organization. The strategic leader is not limited to those at the top of the organization. It is geared to a wider audience at all levels who want to create a high performance life, team or organization.
(engelsk: That approximately twenty-one (21) hostile divisions, including depot divisions, will be on HONSHU at initiation of [Coronet] and that fourteen (14) of these divisions may be employed in the KANTO PLAIN area.)
In October 2014, Hamilton was announced as part of Grateful Dead's Bill Kreutzmann's new band Billy & the Kids. Also in the band are Reed Mathis and Aron Magner.
The Discovery of Nuclear Fission Historical account complete with audio and teacher's guides from the American Institute of Physics History Center
The only pre-requisite is for the volunteer to actually live in the country and to have access to at least one donation method that we offer for that country (mainly credit/debit card, but also real-time banking like IDEAL, E-wallets, etc...) so we can do a live test and see if the donation goes through. All volunteers will be reimbursed of the donations that eventually succeed (and they will be low amounts, like 1-2 dollars)
Holly can contain caffeic acid, caffeoyl derivatives, caffeoylshikimic acid, chlorogenic acid, feruloylquinic acid, quercetin, quinic acid, kaempferol, tannins, rutin, caffeine, and theobromine.
east of the Apalachicola River, plus the portions of Franklin County and Gulf County south of the Intracoastal Waterway, west of the Apalachicola River*,
It aforetyms wis a free kinrik, but than Scotland gaed intil a union wi Ingland in 1603, whan Jeams VI o Scotland becam Jeams I o Ingland eftir the daith o Elspeth I. This union wis makkit formal on 1 Mey 1707 bi the Treatie o Union. The Scots Pairlament wis gotten rid o on 26 Mairch. The union southert baith kinriks, makkin the Kinrick o Great Breetain, wi a new singil Pairlament haudden in Wastmeinster, Lunnon, but sum pairts o Scotland's institutions, merkit the laund's naitional kirk an skuilin an legal seistems, wis hauden apairt. In 1801, Scotland becam ane o the thrie launds o the Unitit Kinrick, alang wi Ingland an Ireland (nou juist Northren Ireland). Wales is nou seen for uisal as anither laund, awtho it wis juist a principalitie o the kinrik o Ingland in 1707.
Of the 197 helicopters, which are to be bought in a fly away condition and via knock down kits, 133 are for the Army, while 64 will be delivered to the Air Force. The helicopter deal is part of a mega modernisation programme which will see the Army eventually receiving 197 helicopters and the Indian Air Force getting 188. The deal also includes an offset clause, under which the successful vendor must source defence-related goods and services to the value of 50 per cent of the deal from Indian companies.
Ammon, Harry. James Monroe: The Quest for National Identity. (1971, 2nd ed. 1990). 706 pp. standard scholarly biography excerpt and text search
Aafat ek 1977 mein bana Hindi film hain. Yea film India mein Atma Ram ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Navin Nischol, Leena Chandavarkar, Jayshree T., Amjad Khan acting kiye the.
Farrington, D. P. (1997a) Early prediction of violent and non-violent youthful offending. European Journal on Criminal Policy and Research, 5 (2), 51-66.
Yuqanaka: Norman Chaplin, Charles Chaplin Jr., Sydney Earl Chaplin, Geraldine Chaplin, Michael Chaplin, Josephine Chaplin, Victoria Chaplin, Eugene Anthony Chaplin, Jane Chaplin, Anette Chaplin, Christopher Chaplin.
Gimbutas, Marija, 1961. "Notes on the chronology and expansion of the Pit-grave culture", in J. Bohm & S. J. De Laet (eds), L’Europe à la fin de 1’Age de la pierre: 193-200. Prague: Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences.
Players who commit bad fouls get shown a yellow card. Players who commit really bad fouls, or get shown two yellow cards in the same game, get shown a red card. Players who get shown a red card get sent off the field and cannot finish playing the game. In some competitions (like the Premier League in England) you miss the next game (suspended) if you get a red card, or pick up 5 yellow cards during the season.
Trishul- Under Trials. Due to delays in the Trishul missile program the OSA-AKM / SA-8b Gecko air defence systems are being upgraded. Cancelled due to cost of production.
The Wikimedia Foundation's multimedia team seeks community guidance on a proposal to support the MP4 video format. This digital video standard is used widely around the world to record, edit and watch videos on mobile phones, desktop computers and home video devices. It is also known as H.264/MPEG-4 or AVC.
Shoko reEnglish rokuti automatic rinoreva self-acting or self-moving or self-thinking. Shoko rokuti kutinhura rinoreva kukonzera kuti chinhu chivambe kushanda, kutinhira, kufamba kana kuenda chichiita zvachakafanirwa kuti chiite - set in motion or to get something going, initiate or trigger.
In November 2002 Castle Technology Ltd released a modified version of Pace's 32-bit RISC OS as RISC OS 5 for their Iyonix PC, in apparent contravention of the licence agreement that RISCOS Ltd held with Element 14. In July 2003, Castle bought all technology rights to RISC OS from Pace in an attempt to legalise the situation. In January 2004, Castle also took over Tematic Ltd., the company formed by ex-Pace engineers when they were made redundant in March 2003. The result was a long-running and acrimonious dispute between RISCOS Ltd and Castle over licensing, which ultimately lead to Castle claiming to terminate RISCOS Ltd's licence to develop, sell and sub-license RISC OS 4. RISCOS Ltd refuted all the claims made and challenged Castle to identify how and from whom they had acquired RISC OS 5. An end to the dispute was signalled when RISCOS Ltd and Castle agreed to work on attempting to merge their development streams and re-unify RISC OS, with Castle's engineers working on key system functionality and RISCOS Ltd on user-facing elements. One of the conditions was that RISCOS Ltd agreed to be renamed RISC OS Developments Ltd. ROL and Castle subsequently agreed to merge RISC OS 4 and RISC OS 5 together, as of 2011 this merge hasn't happened.
CBS' broadcast of Super Bowl XXI (at the end of the 1986 season) was the first NFL game to be broadcast in Dolby Surround sound and in stereo. The postgame show was supposed to feature the song "One Shining Moment" but due to postgame interviews taking so long, CBS never aired it. They ultimately changed the lyrics from "The ball is kicked" to "The ball is tipped", and the song is now played at the end of the network's NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship coverage. CBS also debuted the theme music (composed by Lloyd Landesman) ultimately became the theme used for CBS' college football coverage (which was also the case for the theme CBS used from 1984–1986 after debuting it for Super Bowl XVIII) for the 1987 season (this theme was actually loosely based on the Pots and Pans theme).
The shootout was couched in the movie as a heavily armed firefight that took place at medium range. The historical event itself lasted only about 30 seconds, and was fought at close range with only a few firearms.
Nyns usi Ynys Manow ow kul rann a naneyl Rywvaneth Unys nag Unyans Europek, mes yma kevrennow krev ynter ynysow Manow ha Breten Veur, a-ban yw an ynys serghek dhe Gurun an Rywvaneth Unys. Titel an Vyghternes y'n ynys yw Arloedh Manow, hag yma'n Rywvaneth Unys ow kwayta ammok an ynys. Sowson yw niver bras a drigoryon Manow.
Man is in search of power. Some are after money power, others seek political power and some others muscle power. But there is no power which can withstand God’s Divine Power.
The Sonic Diver specialist who work on Otoha's Reijin. He is a rough man and has a tendency to be a bit of a pervert, which Otoha scolds him for. He and Otoha develop a close bond, even though neither will admit it and they fight frequently.
Wang Mang initiated a series of major reforms that were ultimately unsuccessful. These reforms included outlawing slavery, nationalizing land to equally distribute between households, and introducing new currencies, a change which debased the value of coinage. Although these reforms provoked considerable opposition, Wang's regime met its ultimate downfall with the massive floods of c. 3 AD and 11 AD. Gradual silt buildup in the Yellow River had raised its water level and overwhelmed the flood control works. The Yellow River split into two new branches: one emptying to the north and the other to the south of the Shandong Peninsula, though Han engineers managed to dam the southern branch by 70 AD.
Hearst's bail was revoked in May 1978 when appeals failed and the Supreme Court declined to hear her case. The prison took no special security measures for Hearst's safety until she found a dead rat on her bunk the day William and Emily Harris were arraigned for her abduction. The Harrises were convicted on a simple kidnapping charge (as opposed to the more serious kidnapping for ransom or kidnapping with bodily injury); they were released after serving a total eight years each. Although there were some articles in legal journals about the issues in the case the definition of duress in law remained unchanged.
Pollington, S. 2000. Leechcraft: Early English Charms, Plantlore, and Healing (Hockwold-cum-Wilton, Norfolk: Anglo-Saxon Books). Editio imperfecta
(en) Wei, X.-X., & Wang, X.-Q. 2004 : Recolonization and radiation in Larix (Pinaceae): evidence from nuclear ribosomal DNA paralogues, Molecular Ecology, 13, pp. 3115–3123
Artemisa is widely known among Artemiseños by the name Jardín de Cuba (Garden of Cuba). Its ferric red soil is also an outstanding feature, and provides great fertility to the area, which produces banana, tobacco, sugar cane, and minor fruits. Due to the color of the soil, Artemisa is known as Villa Roja (Red Village).
White, Andrew Dickson (1896). A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom. Two volumes. New York, NY: D. Appleton and Company.
Pengelley, Rupert (1989), "«A new era in tank man armament: The options multiply»", Janes International Defense Review (no. November 1989): 1521–1531
The best overall printed sources on nuclear weapons design are: Hansen, Chuck. U.S. Nuclear Weapons: The Secret History. San Antonio, TX: Aerofax, 1988; and the more-updated Hansen, Chuck. Swords of Armageddon: U.S. Nuclear Weapons Development since 1945. Sunnyvale, CA: Chukelea Publications, 1995.
Komo, Fiji ke Lau Group ke ek island hae. ii island ke location 18.7 degrees West aur 178.6 degress south hae. Komo, Moce se 50Km est me hae.
American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA): a union representing U. S. television and radio actors and broadcasters (on-air journalists, etc.).
A. S. D. Smith (1883-1950; y henwyn o Arthur Saxon Dennett, mes aswonnys yw pupprys avel A.S.D. Smith) o hembrenkyas a dhasserghyans an yeth Kernewek warbarth gans Robert Morton Nance. Bardh a Orsedh Kernow o ev, gans an hanow bardhek "Caradar". Genys veu y'n vlydhen 1883 yn Sussex, Pow Sows, yn teylu kernewek.
In addition to its Sunday and Monday night coverage, Westwood One also is the radio home for Thursday Night Football. Westwood One and its predecessors have always aired Thursday games in the past, but until 2006 those games were usually limited to Thanksgiving, rarely scheduled midweek games, and the season opening game beginning in 2002.
Satie, Erik. 1923. "Igor Stravinsky: A Tribute to the Great Russian Composer by an Eminent French Confrère". Vanity Fair (February): 39 & 88.
Ba Town Council ii park ke Fiji Football Association ke lease karis hai, jon ki Park ke marammat kare hai. Battle of the Giants Tournament ke time ground me beer becha jaae hai.
italics: claimant who cannot be considered to have ruled or held power over part of the empire onlybold italics: nickname by which the individual is commonly known
28.10 - 29.10 - 30.10 - 31.10 - 01.11 - 02.11 - 03.11 - 04.11 - 05.11 - 06.11 - 07.11 - 08.11 - 09.11 - 10.11 - 11.11 - 12.11 - 13.11 - 14.11 - 15.11 - 16.11 - 17.11
Petrozavodsk is distinguished amang ither touns o North Roushie bi its Neoclassical airchitectural heritage, which includes the Roond Square (1775, reconstructit in 1789 an 1839) an the Alexander Nevsky Cathedral (consecratit in 1832). Amang the toun's landmarks are the ootdoor statues o Peter I (bronze an granite, Ippolit Monighetti, 1873), Gavrila Derzhavin (a Roushie poet who wis the govrenor o Olonets in the 18t century), an Alexander Nevsky (erectit ootside Alexander Nevsky Cathedral in 2010).
On 8 July 2015, Carvajal signed a new deal with the Merengues until 2020. He contributed with eight appearances and one goal in the campaign's Champions League, as the tournament ended in win; in the final against Atlético Madrid, he retired injured early into the second half of a 1–1 draw (penalty shootout triumph).
Santa María Chilchotla is a toun an municipality in Oaxaca in sooth-wastren Mexico. It is pairt o the Teotitlán Destrict in the north o the Cañada Region.
Plantilla:Details For the past few decades, the NFL has always let CBS be the "singleheader" network during the week it televises the Men's U.S. Open Tennis final at 4:05 pm ET around the country (CBS has said that it cannot justify putting the Men's U.S. Open Final on Sunday night in terms of ratings; the women's final, broadcast on a Saturday night, often outrates the men's final by a considerable margin, except when at least one American plays in the men's final).Plantilla:Citation needed However due to weather delays occurring yearly since 2009, this has ended up being the slot for the women's final on Sunday afternoons.
L punto l mais eilebado na region ye The Cheviot, an Northumberland, an 815m i la cidade percipal ye Newcastle i la cidade la maior ye Sunderland.
G. Audi, A.H. Wapstra, C. Thibault, J. Blachot & O. Bersillon (2003) - The NUBASE evaluation of nuclear and decay properties, Nuclear Physics A, 729, pp. 3-128
Protein Songs (Stuart Mitchell - DNA Music Project), 'When a "tape" of mRNA passes through the "playing head" of a ribosome, the "notes" produced are amino acids and the pieces of music they make up are proteins.'
Vatican Web site: Official biography of JORGE MARIO BERGOGLIO published on the occasion of the Conclave by the Holy See Press Office with the information provided by the cardinals themselves
Culiacán uisses the Central Internacional de Autobuses "Millennium" ("Millennium" Internaitional Buses Station) tae traivel athort aw Mexico (North, Centre an Sooth) an tae the Unitit States (Arizona an Californie). This replacit the auld bus terminal in the soothren ceety.
Diba, Bahman Aghai (2011). Is Iran legally permitted to close Strait of Hormuz to countries that impose sanctions against Iran's oil?. Cupertino, California: Payvand Iranian-American Website.
Ta gass jeeragh eck, as ish renaigagh faggys da'n vun eck. Ta duillagyn y vun mooar as angheyre, lieh-fedjagagh as feeacklagh, as ta cass oc. Ta duillagyn ny gass ny sloo, gyn chass, as dronuillagagh dys oohchrooagh, as ta bir oc. Ta crouw-vlaaghey wuighey eck as blaaghyn kiare-phetyllagh ecksh. She fynneig liauyr eh y mess eck, mysh 3-5em er lhiurid as gob 1-2cm echey. Ta rassinyn dhoney dorraghey ayn, as t'ad tannaghtyn bio rish wheesh as 10 bleeantyn 'sy thalloo, ny erreish daue goll trooid corys lheieagh beiyn ny keayrtyn.
Hirshfeld, Alan, and Roger W. Sinnott, eds., Sky Catalogue 2000.0, Vol.2, Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Corp. and Cambridge University Press, 1985. (3098,238)
Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) – Pink Floyd Internet Reference List, Version 3.6 (August 1995), Originally compiled by David Schuetz, Currently maintained by Matt Denault
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a feectional Breetish schuil o magic for students aged eleiven tae aichteen, an is the primay settin for the first sax beuks in J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series.
At the NFL's annual meeting in Maui, Hawaii on March 15, 1987, Commissioner Pete Rozelle and Broadcast Committee Chairman Art Modell announced new three-year TV contracts with ABC, CBS, and NBC for the 1987–1989 seasons.
She steat ayns ny Steatyn Unnaneysit eh Idaho. T'eh çhemmit liorish Washington as Oregon da'n sheear, Nevada asUtah da'n jiass, as Montana as Wyoming da'n shiar. Ta joarey eddyr-ashoonagh echey lesh y chummaght Canadagh, y Cholombey Ghoaldagh da'n twoaie. She Boise yn preeu-valley as y balley smoo 'sy steat.
Ta'n Danvarg, lesh tarmaynys capitlagh seyr-vargagh as steat lhiassee mooar ayn, rang-oardit rere un towse, myr y chied çheer 'sy theihll lesh y cheim s'yrdjey dy cho-chormid çheet stiagh. Rere yn earishlioar dellal Americaanagh Forbes, ta'n çhymmyltaght dellal share 'sy theihll ec y Danvarg. Veih 2006 dys 2008, chur towshanyn y Danvarg myr "y boayl s'maynrey 'sy theihll," as ny h-eiyrtyssyn shen bunnit er towshanyn slaynt, lhiassee, as ynsee. Ta Ayndagh Shee Dowanagh ny bleeaney 2009 rang-oardraghey yn Danvarg myr y nah çheer 'sy theihll er cooishyn shee, lurg y Teelynn Noa. Ayns Ayndagh Tastidyn Sollaghey-Laue ny bleeaney 2008 va'n Danvarg rang-oardit myr y çheer lesh y chooid by loo jeh sollaghey-laue 'sy theihll, as y stayd shen rheynnit lesh y Toolynn as y Teelynn Noa.
Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery on behalf of the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee, 05:03, 21 April 2015 (UTC) • Translate • Get help
Population decline and the Erosion of the Veps Language Community. – Ethnic and Linguistic Context of Identitry: Finno-Ugric Minorities. Ed. by Riho Grünthal & Magdolna Kovács. Helsinki 2011 (Uralica Helsingiensia 5), 267–293.
They are fast growing, extending their reach along surfaces through a network of runners. Due to their speedy growth, one plant of each desired mint, along with a little care, will provide more than enough mint for home use. Some mint species are more invasive than others. Even with the less invasive mints, care should be taken when mixing any mint with any other plants, lest the mint take over. To control mints in an open environment, mints should be planted in deep, bottomless containers sunk in the ground, or planted above ground in tubs and barrels.
The arithmetic mean, often simply called the mean, of two numbers, such as 2 and 8, is obtained by finding a value A such that 2 + 8 = A + A. One may find that A = (2 + 8)/2 = 5. Switching the order of 2 and 8 to read 8 and 2 does not change the resulting value obtained for A. The mean 5 is not less than the minimum 2 nor greater than the maximum 8. If we increase the number of terms in the list for which we want an average, we get, for example, that the arithmetic mean of 2, 8, and 11 is found by solving for the value of A in the equation 2 + 8 + 11 = A + A + A. One finds that A = (2 + 8 + 11)/3 = 7.
Template:Succession box two to oneTemplate:Succession box two to oneTemplate:Succession box two and one to threeTemplate:Succession footnoteTemplate:Succession footnote
He coached Al-Khutot, Salah-Al-Deen and Al-Karkh in the 1990s before leaving Iraq to settle in Arnhem, the Netherlands. Douglas is in the Al Shorta Hall of Fame.
Weel-kent is the Eilean Donan castle, that dates frae the 13t hunneryear. It wis biggit bi Alexander II, an wis malafoustered bi Inglis frigates in 1719, a month afore the battle o Glen Shiel. The castle wis restored bi Lt. Col. John MacRae-Gilstrap an is the nou ane o the maist famous moniments in Scotland.
Born an brocht up in Aiberdeenshire, he stairtit wirkin as a jurnalist fur the Aberdeen Journal an the Scottish Farmer at the age o 16. In 1920 he listit wi the Ryal Air Force, wirkin as a clerk an spendin some time in the Middle Aest. In 1928 he quat the RAF an stairtit tae write fou-time. He wrat monie beuks an shorter warks baith unner his rael name an his nom de plume afore his airlie daith in 1935.
Paulson, Dennis R., and Sidney W. Dunkle. Slater Museum of Natural History, University of Puget Sound, Occasional Paper no. 56. Tacoma, Washington, USA, The University of Puget Sound, 2002. с. 88.
In the early years, students at the Columbia School were not separated according to grade. All were subject to the same rules, among them the following adopted by the Trustees on May 2, 1827: "Every scholar must be made to name every silent letter in his spelling when he spells a word with one in and mention every figure which is placed over a letter and be taught to know their uses and for every mistake or omission in such letter or figure shall be considered the same as spelling a word wrong and subject to the same usage.
David Albright and Kimberly Kramer (2005-08-22). "Neptunium 237 and Americium: World Inventories and Proliferation Concerns". Institute for Science and International Security. Retrieved 2011-10-13.
Uprantchea kallant omerika ani yurop khonddantlea kaim xarant vimanotollasaun lagsarchea relve sthanka meren vochpakhatir va oxech torecheo lagsarchea don sthanam'modim eke vellek sumar 40 provaxanchi porot porot yeradari korpi ani songnnokachea adaran svoincholit axil'li relve porivhon veustha upegant haddlea.
Lewanski, Richard C. (1967). Lilbrary Directories [and] Library Science Dictionaries, in Bibliography and Reference Series, no. 4. 1967 ed. Santa Barbara, Calif.: Clio Press. N.B.: Publisher also named as the "American Bibliographical Center".
Patrick Daniel "Dan" Kelly (September 17, 1936 – February 10, 1989) was a Canadian-born sportscaster best known for his radio play-by-play coverage of the St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League, from early in their existence until his death more than two decades later.
Some of the local issues Hanna was known to campaign for were: upgrading the Oaklands rail crossing, making Glenthorne a forested recreational park, and turning the old O’Halloran Hill TAFE site into a high school.
She banglane jeh bea-oaylleeaght ee bea-kemmig, bentyn rish stoo kemmigagh, aawoallaghyn as obbraghyn elley ta taghyrt ayns bioagyn. T'ee scrutaghey strughtoor as obbyr rheynnyn ny killag, myr sampleyr, proteenyn, carbey-hydraadyn, lipaidyn as co-vreneenyn bea-oaylleeagh elley. Ta cooishyn vea-chemmig goaill stiagh soe, gien-oaylleeaght, ymmyrkey far-chrackanagh ayns killagyn, as co-haaghey proteenyn.
Rushton, Susie, "A brief history of pants: Why men's smalls have always been a subject of concern", 'The Independent (Extra), 22 Januari 2008, pp. 2–5.
Leilek is a raion (destrict) o Batken Province in soothwastren Kyrgyzstan an the wastmaist destrict in the kintra. It borders wi Batken Destrict in the east, an Tajikistan in the sooth, wat, an north. The caipital lies at Isfana.:
However, even in some patriarchal societies, widows could maintain economic independence. A widow could carry on her late husband's business and consequently be accorded certain rights, such as the right to enter guilds. More recently, widows of elected officials have been among the first women elected to office in many countries (e.g. Corazon Aquino).
Underwater Dreams ek 2014 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Mary Mazzio ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Michael Peña acting kiye the.
The failure of Goa to achieve independence within the national independence struggle, in conjunction with mixed signals from the new national Indian leadership in New Delhi and harsh repression by the Portuguese, led to a temporary lull in the Goan independence movement. Similarly, the partition of India and the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947 diverted the focus of the national Indian leadership from the anti-colonial struggles in the Portuguese and French colonies.प्रारूप:Citation needed
Sẹnà, v.t. to speak so that only those in the secret understand the true meaning of what is said, a code. Ó sẹnà sí i. (He spoke to him in lode)
This article incorporates public domain material from the United States Geological Survey document "Clothier Harbor" (content from the Geographic Names Information System).
Although NBC in the United States presented the entire opening ceremony from start to finish, a topless Minoan priestess was shown only briefly, the breasts having been pixelated digitally in order to avoid controversy (as the "Nipplegate" incident was still fresh in viewer's minds at the time) and potential fines by the Federal Communications Commission. Also, lower frontal nudity of men dressed as ancient Greek statues was shown in such a way that the area below the waist was cut off by the bottom of the screen. In most other countries presenting the broadcast, there was no censorship of the ceremony.
Bungeni has 5 secondary schools, which are Russel Bungeni High School, Hluvuka High School, Marholeni Secondary school, Bellevue secondary school and Mahatlani Secondary School. There are 12 Primary schools at Bungeni. There are: Nhjakanhjaka Primary, Muhluri Primary, Mkhono Higher Primary, Bungeni Primary, Xitaci Primary, Mtsetweni Primary, Xihambanyisi primary, Ndlavheya Primary, Nwa-Mhandzi primary, Wayeni primary, Mahatlani primary and Masungi primary.
Harmonic mean for a non-empty collection of numbers a1, a2, …, an, all different from 0, is defined as the reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals of the ai‍ '​s:
Swā se ōðer nama wæterminte tācnaþ, findeþ man wætermintan in þǣm scealdum margins and channels of streams, rivers, pools, dykes, ditches, canals, wet meadows, marshes and fens. If the plant grows in the water itself, it rises above the surface of the water. It generally occurs on mildly acid to calcareous (it is common on soft limestone) mineral or peaty soils.
Jab Roman Empire khalas hoe gais tab Germanic logaae gain. Latin badal gais aur medieval France me dui accents nai to bhasa: langue d'oc aur langue d'oïl ban gais. Iske matlab hae "language of yes", kahe ki oc, "yes" ke sabd rahaa south me aur oïl ke matlab "yes" hae north me.
His view inverts the traditional priority of theory over practice. For him the theoretical view is artificial and comes from just looking at something without any involvement, such an experience is 'levelled off'. For Heidegger this attitude is given the moniker, "present-at-hand" and it is parasitic upon our more fundamental mode of interaction, called "ready-to-hand". Parasitic in the sense that in our history we must first have an attitude or mood toward the world before we can adopt a scientific or neutral attitude toward it. Such a re-evaluation of science allows him to say, for example, that the friend caught sight of across the road is in fact closer than the street upon which one walks, that the voice on a phone is closer than the handpiece, that the glasses pushed back on your head, can be, when not found, considered as remote and far away.
Kuntellyans Selreth Kernow yw bagas owth oberi rag senedh. An omsav a dhallathas yn mis Gortheren 2000 yn Truru hag yma ynni eseli a'n Parti Livrel Werinel, Parti Lavur, an Withadoryon, Mebyon Kernow, Unnveredh Kernow, hag anserghogyon. An konseler anserghek Julyan German yw kaderyor an Guntellyans. Yn 2000 y huntellas an bagas hanowskrifow a 50,546 a dus (41,650 anedha trigys yn Kernow) ow tisklerya aga skoodhyans rag senedh yn Kernow. Yn 2001 y ros negesydhyon an Guntellyans (Andrew George, Bert Biscoe, Richard Ford, Dick Cole, David Fieldsend hag Andrew Climo Thompson) an rol a hanowskrifow dhe'n pennmenyster.
Yourno J, Ino I (1968). “Purification and crystallization of histidinol dehydrogenase from Salmonella typhimurium LT-2”. J. Biol. Chem. 243: 3273–6. PMID 4872177.
The games became regionally-exclusive when Turner acquired the rights to a package of regular season games from other Major League Baseball teams and league post-season games (including the Division Series and alternating rights to the League Championship Series with Fox) for WTBS's national TBS feed; these changes were the impetus of Turner's June 2007 decision to separate WTBS from the TBS national feed and convert channel 17 locally into a standalone independent station, as WPCH-TV, on October 1, 2007. After the Meredith Corporation (owners of CBS affiliate WGCL-TV (channel 46)) entered into a local marketing agreement with the Turner Broadcasting System to operate WPCH, production of the Braves telecasts was transferred the latter company's Turner Sports division to regional sports network Fox Sports South. On February 28, 2013, Fox Sports South and SportSouth signed an agreement to acquire the 45-game package held by WPCH, rendering the team's game telecasts cable-exclusive beginning with the 2013 season, ending channel 17's 40-year relationship with the Braves.
In 2005, it became the first English-language track to ever be allowed on RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta, the Republic of Ireland Irish-language radio station, after having been selected by listeners for the event.
Limnomedusa macroglossa (common name: rapids frog) is a species of frog in the Alsodidae family, in the monotypic genus Limnomedusa. It is found in southern Brazil, northeastern Argentina, Uruguay, and northern Paraguay.
In 2008, woja omsetyans gen Pow Grouzy erbydn Ossety Dhehow, Russy res entras in Pow Grouzy ha fetha lu an wlas-na. Governans Dmitry Medvedev a ajwanas anserhogeth Ossety Dhehow hag Abhazy termyn berr woja hedna.
Page was first attracted to computers when he was six years old, as he was able to "play with the stuff lying around"—first-generation personal computers—that had been left by his parents. He became the "first kid in his elementary school to turn in an assignment from a word processor". His older brother also taught him to take things apart and before long he was taking "everything in his house apart to see how it worked". He said that "from a very early age, I also realized I wanted to invent things. So I became really interested in technology and business. Probably from when I was 12, I knew I was going to start a company eventually."
Allentown (Lehigh County). S. Peter's Ev. Lutheran Church. Teacher: Dennis Lutterschmidt. Contact: Ph. 610-285-6326 (D. Lutterschmidt), Ph. 610-759-4989 (Wialliam A. Day), Beginners & Advanced.
Hearst alone was arraigned for the Hibernia Bank robbery; the trial commenced on January 15, 1976. Judge Oliver Jesse Carter, who was a professional acquaintance of a junior member of the prosecution team, ruled Hearst's taped and written statements after the bank robbery while she was a fugitive with the SLA members were voluntary. He did not allow expert testimony that stylistic analysis indicated the 'Tania' statements and writing were not wholly composed by Hearst, and permitted the prosecution to introduce statements and actions of Hearst long after the Hibernia robbery as evidence of her state of mind at the time of the robbery. Carter allowed into evidence a recording made by prison authorities of a friend's prison visit with Hearst in which she used profanities and spoke of her radical and feminist beliefs, but did not allow tapes of the interviews of Hearst by psychiatrist Louis Jolyon West to be heard by the jury. Judge Carter appeared to be 'resting his eyes' during testimony favorable to the defense by West and others.
Construction of a Composite Total Solar Irradiance (TSI) Time Series from 1978 to present by World Radiation Center, Physikalisch-Meteorologisches Observatorium Davos (pmod wrc)
The RIDE Channel, a YouTube skateboarding channel cofounded by Hawk, announced on March 15, 2013 that a new series, entitled "Baker Zone", would commence on March 18, 2013. The series features video productions from the Baker company, such as "Weekend Warriors", "Piled Out", "Trash Compactor" and "Dumb Ass Park Footy".
As previously mentioned, in 1968, CBS abandoned its practice of using dedicated announcing crews for particular teams and instituted a semi-merit system in its place, with certain crews (such as Ray Scott and Paul Christman or Jack Buck and Pat Summerall) being assigned to each week's most prominent games regardless of the participating teams.
After 92 AD, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics, engaging in violent power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers, causing the Han's ultimate downfall. Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion. Following the death of Emperor Ling (r. 168–189 AD), the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale massacre by military officers, allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire. When Cao Pi, King of Wei, usurped the throne from Emperor Xian, the Han dynasty ceased to exist.
EN: Dear colleagues, please comment on CentralNotice banner proposal for Volga WikiSeminar 2017 announcement (all active WPs in languages of Russia, except Azerbaidjani, Kazakh, Finnish and Ukrainian; globally, except Ukraine). Thank you & sorry if this announcement is not available in your preferred language.
Li Direktion Sankt Augustin is li Direktion por li federal states Nordrhein-Westfalia. Li Direktion have 9 Bundespolizeiinspektionen e 20 Bundespolizeireviere:
It wis the soothmaist toun in the Jund Hims militar destrict o Greater Sirie durin the Umayyad Caliphate. Abu'l-Fida describit it in his Geografie o 1321 as a lairge veelage hauf wey atween Damascus an Homs. It is a waystation for the caravans. Maist o its inhabitants are Christians. It lees 1½ mairches frae Homs an 2 mairches frae Damascus.
Public Record Office, London, F. O. 78/2784; F. O. 195/1186, 1367; The British Museum, LondGn, Accounts and Papers (38). 1878 —9, 461—477; Accounts and Papers (38). 1878. LXXXIII. 83, 298—301; Accounts an& Pa-pers (41). 1880. LXXX. 80, 321; Accounts and Papers (43). 1880. LXXXIl. 82, 511—512.
Kayser, M., S. Brauer, G. Weiss, P. A. Underhill, L. Roewer, W. Schiefenhšfel, et M. Stoneking. 2000. "Melanesian Origin of Polynesian Y Chromosomes." Current Biology 10:1237–1246
Africa Dhehow yw repoblek anserhek orth pedn dhehow Africa. In 2002 yth esa poblans a 43 647 658 a drygoryon i'n pow. An gwlasow kentrevek yw Lesotho, Swaziland, Moçambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana, ha Namibi. Yma nyver veur a dus "wydn" (europek aga hendeuhyon) hag Eyndogyon, mes tus Afrikek a furvy an brassa nyver a dus.
It wis foondit in the early 18t century, as a suburban veelage sooth o St. Petersburg. In 1764, the veelage haed a paper mill, located near the road leadin tae St. Petersburg. Durin the 19t century, Krasnoye Selo developit as a recreational suburb o the caipital wi numerous simmer dachas an villas, includin the simmer residences o the ryals. In 1884, the famous airplane designer Alexander Mozhaysky testit his early monoplane thare, achievin a pouer-assistit tak aff or 'hop' of 60 tae 100 feet (18 tae 30 m).
Pankhuenkhat, R. (1982). The Phonology of the Lanna Language:(a Northern Thai Dialect). Institute of Language and Culture for Rural Development, Mahidol University.
(engelsk: That operations in this area will be opposed not only by the available organized military forces of the Empire, but also by a fanatically hostile population.)
Nietfeld JJ, Pasquini MC, Logan BR, Verter F, Horowitz MM. Lifetime probabilities of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in the US. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2008;14:316-22
Rakiraki F.C. Fiji Football Association ke second division ke ek team hae. Ii team Viti Levu ke Rakiraki ke hae. Team ke uniform me maroon sat, ujjar shorts aur maroon moja hae.
(en) This site is is not in lingála yet. It is part of the Translators without borders / Wikipedia-Project to translate 80 medical articles. Please do not delete. en:Wikipedia:WikiProject_Medicine/Translation_task_force
When secessionists protested in 1861 that they were acting to preserve traditional rights and values, they were correct. They fought to preserve their constitutional liberties against the perceived Northern threat to overthrow them. The South's concept of republicanism had not changed in three-quarters of a century; the North's had.... The ascension to power of the Republican Party, with its ideology of competitive, egalitarian free-labor capitalism, was a signal to the South that the Northern majority had turned irrevocably towards this frightening, revolutionary future. –James McPherson,"Antebellum Southern Exceptionalism: A New Look at an Old Question," Civil War History 29 (Sept. 1983)
(with Halyna Koscharsky) “Contours and consequences of the lexical divide in Ukrainian”. Australian Slavonic and East European Studies, Vol 20, Nos 1-2 2006
The Columbia High School Cougars compete in the Super Essex Conference, following a reorganization of sports leagues in Northern New Jersey by the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association (NJSIAA). With 1,456 students in grades 10-12, the school was classified by the NJSIAA for the 2015-16 school year as North II, Group IV for most athletic competition purposes, which included schools with an enrollment of 1,114 to 4,800 students in that grade range. Prior to the NJSIAA's 2010 realignment, the school had competed as part of the Iron Hills Conference, made up of public and private high schools in Essex County and Union County. Prior to 1972, the school competed in New Jersey's Big Ten Conference.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29
Robert Edwin Peary, Sr. (Mey 6, 1856 – Februar 20, 1920) wis an American explorer who claimed tae hae reached the geografic North Pole wi his expedeetion on Aprile 6, 1909. Peary's claim wis widely creditit for maist o the 20t century, rather nor the competin claim bi Frederick Cook, wha said he got thare a year earlier. Baith claims war widely debatit in newspapers till 1913.
Original Intro: „In a time of ancient gods, warlords and kings, a land in turmoil cried out for a hero. She was Xena, a mighty princess forged in the heat of battle. The power, the passion, the danger. Her courage will change the world.“
Gorta Fenten Geyn (Sowsnek: St Keyne Wishing Well Halt) yw gorsav hyns-horn war an Linen Nans Logh a serv an treveglos a Sen Keyn ha gwithti "Magnificent Music Machines".
The Banner o Italy (bandiera d'Italia, aften referred tae in Italian as il Tricolore) is a tricolour featurin three equally sized vertical pales o green, white, an reid, wi the green at the hoist side. Its current form haes been in uise syne 19 Juin 1946 an wis formally adoptit on 1 Januar 1948.
(en) Hardman, Michael (2008). "A New Species of Catfish Genus Chrysichthys from Lake Tanganyika (Siluriformes: Claroteidae)". Copeia 1: 43–56.
In 1930 Johnson joined the architecture department of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. There he arranged for American visits by Gropius and Le Corbusier, and negotiated the first American commission for Mies van der Rohe. In 1932, working with Hitchcock and Alfred H. Barr, Jr., he organized the first exhibition on Modern architecture at the Museum of Modern Art in 1932. The show and their simultaneously published book International Style: Modern Architecture Since 1922 played an important part in introducing modern architecture to the American public. When the rise of the Nazis in Germany forced the modernists Marcel Breuer and Mies van der Rohe to leave Germany, Johnson helped arrange for them to come to work in the United States.
Steichen, Edward (1955). The Family of Man: The Greatest Photographic Exhibition of All Time. New York: Maco Pub. Co for the Museum of Modern Art.
The Cochabamba valley wis inhabitit for ower a thoosan years due tae its fertile productive soils an climate. Archaeological evidence suggests that the initial valley inhabitants wur o various ethnic indigenous groups. Inca, Tupuraya, Mojocoya, Omereque, an Tiwanaku inhabitit the valley at various times afore the Spainyie arrivit.
The Fighter ek 2010 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein David O. Russell ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Mark Wahlberg, Christian Bale, Amy Adams, Melissa Leo acting kiye the.
LIBRIS (Librar Information Seestem) is a Swadish naitional union catalogue maintained bi the Naitional Leebrar o Swaden in Stockholm. It is possible tae freely rake aboot 6.5 million teetles naitionwide.
Watt involves community effort when creating artworks. Her project Blanket Stories: Transportation Object, Generous Ones at the Tacoma Art Museum involved creating large-scale installations out of blankets donated by the community. Not only are the blankets the medium but "Watt believes that blankets provide access to social connections, historical traditions, and cross-cultural meanings." Watt hosts sewing circles, groups who gather and work such as with the piece Forget me not: Mothers and Sons in which they constructed portraits of servicemen (and one woman) from Oregon killed in the Iraqi war.
Manainai (Disrespectful, provocative behaviour. 2. M Astonishing circumstance). Handina kumboitirwa manainai akakomba akadai: I have never been so provoked. Ndakapona ngemanainai.
Rafaela Lopes Silva (born 24 Aprile 1992) is a Brazilian judoka. She wan a gowd medal at the 2013 Warld Judo Championships an at the 2016 Simmer Olympics in the –57 kg wecht diveesion.
1520 - The Strait of Magellan, the passage immediately south of mainland Sūþ America, connecting the Stillehæf and the Atlantic Gārsecg, is first navigated by Ferdinand Magellan during his global circumnavigation voyage.
Goldblatt, P. & De Vos M. P. The reduction of Oenostachys, Homoglossum and Anomalesia, putative sunbird pollinated xenera, in Gladiolus L. (Iridaceae-Ixioideae). Bulletin du Muséum national d'histoire naturelle. Section B, Adansonia 11 (4): 417-428, 1989.
(anglese) Roundup Record-Tribune & Winnett Times. 640 Acre Stock Raising Homestead Law Described: Provisions of New Measure Now Before US Senate Described in Detail. 19 de feb 1916.
In 2014, it sponsored The Harvard Project for Asian and International Relations (HPAIR) conference in Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. One of the Asia’s largest business and youth leadership gathering organized by students, the conference has featured speakers such as UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon, former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, director of the Earth Institute Professor Jeffrey Sachs, former President of the Republic of South Korea and 2000 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Kim Dae Jung, and the Asia director of the World Economic Forum Frank Jurgen Richter. In 2016, it sponsored the HPAIR conference that was held at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Ronaldo began his club career playing for Sporting CP, before signing with Manchester United at age 18 in 2003. After winning his first trophy, the FA Cup, during his first season in England, he helped United win three successive Premier League titles, a UEFA Champions League title, and a FIFA Club World Cup. By age 23, he had received Ballon d'Or and FIFA World Player of the Year nominations. He was the subject of the most expensive association football transfer when he moved from Manchester United to Real Madrid in 2009 in a transfer worth €94 million ($132 million). In Spain, he has since won one La Liga title, two Copas del Rey, two Champions League titles, and two Club World Cups. Ronaldo holds the record for most goals scored in a single UEFA Champions League season, having scored 17 goals in the 2013–14 season. In 2014, Ronaldo became the fastest player to score 200 goals in La Liga, which he accomplished in his 178th La Liga game. He is the only player in the history of football to score more than 50 goals in a season on six consecutive occasions. In 2015, Ronaldo became the all-time top goalscorer in the UEFA Champions League, and he also became Real Madrid's all-time leading goalscorer. He is the second highest goalscorer in La Liga history behind Lionel Messi, his perceived career rival.
The genus is distributed throughout the world's different climates. Most species make their home in the tropics and subtropics, with a worldwide distribution in temperate zones. The greatest diversity of species is found in the Americas and in Southeast Asia.
1937, The Amberley Papers: The Letters and Diaries of Lord and Lady Amberley (với Patricia Russell), 2 tập, London: Leonard & Virginia Woolf at the Hogarth Press.
xx-0 if you cannot understand the language at all. Do not use it for every language that you don't know, but only when there is some reason why you might be expected to know it. For example, one may be of Italian descent, but does not speak the Italian language, or if one is Canadian but does not speak French. Similarly, one may usefully edit a project without speaking the language, such as adding links or images to Japanese Wikipedia without speaking Japanese.
Oviedo (Spaingie pronunciation: [oˈβjeðo]; Asturian: Uviéu) is the caipital ceety o the Principality o Asturias in northren Spain an the admeenistrative an commercial centre o the region.
All proposals are welcome - research projects, technical solutions, community organizing and outreach initiatives, or something completely new! Funding is available from the Wikimedia Foundation for projects that need financial support. Constructive, positive feedback on ideas is appreciated, and collaboration is encouraged - your skills and experience may help bring someone else’s project to life. Join us at the Inspire Campaign and help this project better represent the world’s knowledge!
Muchidzidzo Pimanyika, mukwava (vertex, corner kuEnglish) izwi rinoreva panosangana mitsetse miviri kana zviso zviviri - (where two surfaces or lines meet to form an angle).
Since binary is a base-2 system, each digit represents an increasing power of 2, with the rightmost digit representing 20, the next representing 21, then 22, dan so on. To determine the decimal representation of a binary nombor simply take the sum of the products of the binary digits dan the powers of 2 which they represent. Contohnya, nombor binari:
The water in the pools has to be constantly filtered to keep it clean for the dolphins and the spectators, and the temperature and composition of the water has to be controlled to match the conditions dolphins experience in the wild. In the absence of a common international regulation, guidelines regarding the minimum size of the pools vary between countries. To give an indication of pool sizes, the European Association for Aquatic Mammals recommends that a pool for five dolphins should have a surface area of 275 m2（2,960 sq ft） plus an additional 75 m2（810 sq ft） for every additional animal, have a depth of 3.5 m（11 ft） for at least the minimum surface area and have a water volume of at least 1,000 m3（35,000 cu ft） with an additional 200 m3（7,100 cu ft） for every additional animal. If two of these three conditions are met and the third is not more than 10% below standard, the EAAM considers the pool size to be acceptable.
Dr. Mariano Aguas, a veterinarian who headed then Magalang Agricultural School In Pampanga which is now a national state college, and Lumbunao Agricultural College in Iloilo;
She poagey mooar lesh cassyn doarnane eh poagey laue. Dy cadjin ta cummey fassanagh er poagaghyn laue, as t'ad goll er ymmyd ec mraane dy ymmyrkey nheeghyn persoonagh lheid as wolladyn, sporranyn, cooinaghyn argid, ogheryn, jesheenagyn, skeaban fuilt, tudjeenyn, shooylee, as reddyn elley.
In 1956 (tied with Cranford High School), 1982 and again in 1990 (tied with Cherry Hill High School East), the school's chess team was the New Jersey high school team champion, winning the Father Casimir J. Finley Trophy.
Farrington, D. P. (2002) Multiple risk factors for multiple problem violent boys. In Corrado, R.R., Roesch, R., Hart, S.D. and Gierowski, J.K. (Eds.) Multi-Problem Violent Youth: A Foundation for Comparative Research on Needs, Interventions, and Outcomes. Amsterdam: IOS Press (pp. 23-34).
William Kahan (14 October 2011). "Desperately Needed Remedies for the Undebuggability of Large Floating-Point Computations in Science and Engineering" (PDF).
The Islamic calendar is based on the emigration o Muhammad an his follaers tae the ceety o Medina, which marks the stairt o the Hijri year in 622 CE, cawed Hijra (هجرة).
The GNU Free Documentation License (GNU FDL or simply GFDL) is a copyleft license for free documentation, designed by the Free Software Foundation (FSF) for the GNU project. It is the counterpart to the GNU GPL that gives readers the same rights to copy, redistribute and modify a work and requires all copies and derivatives to be available under the same license. Copies may also be sold commercially, but if produced in larger quantities (greater than 100) then the original document or source code must be made available to the work's recipient.
Nauman, W.D. Web page[5] titled "OVERVIEW OF THE VACCINIUM INDUSTRY IN WESTERN EUROPE," a summary of an article by W.D. Naumann presented at the Fifth International Symposium on Vaccinium Culture and published in July 1993, from the Web site of the International Society for Horticultural Science, accessed August 24, 2006.
After the failure of the 1893 amendment, the movement continued. However, the MWSA was unable to build on its earlier success. The MWSA and its ally, the Political Equality Club, placed women's suffrage before the state legislature every session. Each time, the bill either died in committee or was defeated.
This also necessitated a rejection of the Cartesian, disembodied Cogito: that is, an 'I' as a purely thinking object. 代之，海德格堅持，任何人類行為嘅分析都應由「我哋係喺世界入面」呢一事實開始 (not viewing it in an 'abstract' fashion): therefore the fundamental fact about human existence is our 'being-in-the-world'. Human beings, or Dasein (German" da—there/here; sein—being or its; dasein—existence), Heidegger insisted, are embodied beings who act in the world. He therefore rejected the 'subject-object' distinction assumed by most philosophers since Descartes and so rejected terms like Consciousness, ego, human being, Man, which are so laden with Cartesian dualism that, for his purposes, they are practically useless. Instead he uses the German portmanteau, Dasein.
European Council on Refugees and Exiles (ECRE) The European umbrella organization for European non-governmental organizations concerned with refugees and asylum seekers. Website provides weekly updates on European asylum policies, country reports, refugee stories and a comprehensive list of related links among other materials on the issue.
Carpenter wrote the film in the mid-1970s as a reaction to the Watergate scandal. After the success of Halloween, he had enough influence to begin production and filmed it mainly in St. Louis, Missouri on an estimated budget of $6 million. Debra Hill and Larry J. Franco served as the producers. The film was co-written by Nick Castle, who had collaborated with Carpenter by portraying Michael Myers in Halloween.
In 1991, હઝારે launched the Bhrashtachar Virodhi Jan Aandolan (BVJA) (People's Movement against Corruption), a popular movement to fight against corruption in Ralegan Siddhi. In the same year he protested against the collusion between 40 forest officials and the timber merchants. This protest resulted in the transfer and suspension of these officials.
Caslys-skeealyn “bentyn da”, va geabbey cur tastey da doilleeidyn sheshaght, myr drogh-ymmyd jeh druggaghyn ayns The Amazing Spider-Man, Green Lantern as Green Arrow.
Fender | Marshall | Bad Cat | Yamaha | Acoustic | VOX | Ampeg | VHT Amplification | Bogner | Trace Elliot | Behringer | Tech 21 | Blackheart | Soldano | Blackstar | Crate | Selmer | Diezel | Roland | Hartke | Dumble | Rivera | Randall | Engl | Peavey | Framus | Gallien-Krueger | Orange | Gibson | Music Man | Hughes & Kettner | Ibanez | Matchless | Jim Kelley | Laney | Mesa/Boogie | Line 6 | Krank amps | Hiwatt
The social composition o this immigration o the late saxteent hunderyear includit baith common fowk, illeeterate as aristocrats wi titles o coonts an marquises, aw o which quickly disintegratit ower the territory.
In industrial uses, sometimes a packing material is used in the column instead of trays, especially when low pressure drops across the column are required, as when operating under vacuum. This packing material can either be random dumped packing (1-3" wide) such as Raschig rings or structured sheet metal. Typical manufacturers are Koch, Sulzer and other companies. Liquids tend to wet the surface of the packing and the vapors pass across this wetted surface, where mass transfer takes place. Unlike conventional tray distillation in which every tray represents a separate point of vapor liquid equilibrium the vapor liquid equilibrium curve in a packed column is continuous. However, when modeling packed columns it is useful to compute a number of "theoretical plates" to denote the separation efficiency of the packed column with respect to more traditional trays. Differently shaped packings have different surface areas and void space between packings. Both of these factors affect packing performance.
The main economic activities are those relatit tae industry, but agricultur does still exist. Cattle, especially sheep, graze on the sides o the muntainous terrain, follaein a tradeetion o millennia, as attestit bi auld traces an megalithic vestiges that bear witness tae the activity. The grazin provides the basis for the production o the hintle appreciatit an heichlie regardit Idiazabal cheese elaboratit an labelled as such on the whole Aizkorri-Aratz aurie an the Basque muntains.
As of the 2014-15 school year, the school had an enrollment of 1,913 students and 146.4 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 13.1:1. There were 359 students (18.8% of enrollment) eligible for free lunch and 114 (6.0% of students) eligible for reduced-cost lunch.
Homigot, a point o laund juttin oot intae the Sea o Japan, is locatit tae the east o urban Pohang in Daebo-myeon. Homigot is ane o the eastmaist points on the Korean peninsula an as such serves ivery year as a gatherin place for thoosans tae greet Korea's first sunrise o the New Year. The beach is hame tae the famous Hands of Harmony sculptur an aw.
Santo Domingo Petapa is a toun an municipality in Oaxaca in sooth-wastren Mexico. The municipality covers a aurie o 232.2 km², at an average altitude o 250 metre abuin sea level, an is pairt o the Juchitán Destrict o the Istmo de Tehuantepec region. As o 2005, the municipality haed a tot population o 7,583, 2,696 o wham spak indigenous leids.
The ceety is locatit in the northwast o the Putumayo depairtment. The municipality borders the depairtments o Nariño tae the wast an Cauca tae the north.
Lenstra, Arjen K.; Lenstra, H.W. Jr. (Eds.) (1993). The development of the number field sieve. Lecture Notes in Math. 1554. Springer-Verlag.
Thare is an on-steid KFC restaurant locatit richt next tae the pairkin o the facility. Ower the road frae Oak Pairk is a Fitness First gym, an several shops includin a fish an chip shop.
The Connected Baby ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK mein Jonathan Robertson ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Suzanne Zeedyk acting kiye the.
For devotees of Lord Hanuman the days Tuesday and Saturday are held as being the most auspicious to give worship or make rituals in his name.
Gimbutas, Marija, edited and supplemented by Miriam Robbins Dexter, 1999 The Living Goddesses. Berkeley/Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Porcu S., Diaferia C., Daga E., Delrio M. and Ligios S., 2006. Rediscovering the niche products of Sardinia: “Sartizza a lorika”. Atti “Animal products from the Mediterranean area” of International Symposium on Comparative Advantages for Typical Animal Products from the Mediterranean Areas. EAAP publication No.119,2006 Santarém, Portugal September 25-27, 2005, 273-277
On May 13 2005, a candle light vigil was held in memory of the late singer in Laguna Beach, USA. The event, which drew many fans and sympathizers called for a conscious effort to respect all Afghan singers. Furthermore, it called for active action against violence in future concert events to protect the other musical assets of Afghanistan. The vigil was held with an Islamic theme to honor his family’s religious tradition. Similar ceremonies were also held thereafter in various cities around the world in honor of the singer.
Notable monuments include the castle o Fontanet. The castle which wis restored in 1916 bi Ramon de Viala d'Aiguavives, Baron o Almenar is documentit in 955 a.c. an nou uised for private functions.
Bal sten ha kober deges dhyworth an 19ves kansvledhen yw Bal Feniks Unys (Sowsnek: Phoenix United Mine). Trigys yw an bal 0.6 mildir (965 meter) dhe'n north-est a Venyon yn Kernow Est.
Joystick apparently possesses superhuman strength (sufficient to press roughly ten tons), speed, agility, dexterity, reflexes & reactions, coordination, balance, and endurance roughly equivalent to that of Spider-Man. The source of these powers remains unknown. She also wears metal devices on her wrists, each of which generates a "baton" of coherent energy, powered by strontium chips. These batons can be swung or hurled with great concussive force, sufficient to damage concrete. In addition, by striking the batons against one another, Joystick can project a powerful concussive force beam at a target, and possesses wires to hack into computers within her gauntlets. Her costume formerly contained an explosive device which would be activated with a 2-minute countdown by the controllers of the Great Game. The mechanism of the devices is unknown, as is their exact composition.
Sucre wis namit in honor o the unthirldom hero Antonio José de Sucre who wis quotit bi the foonders o this depairtment in reference tae Simón Bolívar's daith as saying "They hae killed ma hert", spression said while cruisin the territory o the present day Sucre Depairtment.
Latrodectus mactans, or Soothren black widow or simply black widow, is a heichly venomous species o speeder in the genus Latrodectus. Thay are well kent for the distinctive black an reid colorin o the female o the species an for the fact that she will occasionally eat her mate efter reproduction. The species is native tae North Americae. The venom is seldom fatal tae healthy humans.
Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman (7 November 1888 – 21 November 1970) wis an Indie physicist born in the umwhile Madras Province in Indie presently cried Tamil Nadu, wha carried oot grund-breakin wirk in the field o licht scatterin, which earned him the 1930 Nobel Prize for Pheesics.
For many years following its opening in 1927, the high school physical plant was more than sufficient for the needs of its population. Although four classrooms and a shop were added to the structure in 1939, it was not until 1958 that a large addition (now C Wing) was constructed to accommodate a burgeoning student body. By 1964, the dimensions of a new population explosion were perceived, and a special Board of Education committee was formed to investigate the needs of Columbia High School in the 1970s. As a result of this study, it was calculated that further additions would be required. During the 1970−71 school year, B and D Wings were added at a total cost of $5,250,000.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a teep o obstructive buff disease chairacterised bi lang-term puir airflow. The main symptoms include shortness o breath an coch wi sputum production. COPD is a progressive disease, meanin it teepically worsens ower time. Eventually everyday activities, such as walkin up stairs, acome difficult. Chronic bronchitis an emphysema are aulder terms uised for different teeps o COPD. The term "chronic bronchitis" is still uised tae define a productive coch that is present for at least three months each year for twa years.
Bastardas-Boada, Albert. "World language policy in the era of globalization: Diversity and intercommunication from the perspective of 'complexity'", Noves SL. Revista de Sociolingüística 2002 (Summer).
Emperor Zhang's (r. 75–88 AD) reign came to be viewed by later Eastern Han scholars as the high point of the dynastic house. Subsequent reigns were increasingly marked by eunuch intervention in court politics and their involvement in the violent power struggles of the imperial consort clans. With the aid of the eunuch Zheng Zhong (d. 107 AD), Emperor He (r. 88–105 AD) had Empress Dowager Dou (d. 97 AD) put under house arrest and her clan stripped of power. This was in revenge for Dou's purging of the clan of his natural mother—Consort Liang—and then concealing her identity from him. After Emperor He's death, his wife Empress Deng Sui (d. 121 AD) managed state affairs as the regent empress dowager during a turbulent financial crisis and widespread Qiang rebellion that lasted from 107 to 118 AD.
In 2010-11, Kennedy's Racers repeated as OVC regular-season champions but fell in the conference tournament semifinals. As OVC regular-season champions, Murray State earned a berth in the National Invitation Tournament where it lost 89-76 at Missouri State to finish with a 23-9 season record. Kennedy was again selected OVC coach of the year.
Broderick hett butendem ok an’t Theater arbeit un is tweemol mit den beropenen Tony Award uttekent worrn, neemlich för sien Rullen in Brighton Beach Memoirs un How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.
Skörstorp Church (Swedish: Skörstorps kyrka) is a medieval round church in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. It belongs to the Diocese of Skara.
As mobile phones accumulate new applications and become more advanced, OTA configuration has become incréasingly important as new updates and services come on stréam. OTA via SMS optimises the configuration data updates in SIM cards and handsets and enables the distribution of new software updates to mobile phones or provisioning handsets with the necessary settings with which to access services such as WAP or MMS. OTA messaging provides remote control of mobile phones for service and subscription activation, personalization and programming of a new service for mobile operators and telco third parties.
In 2015, after learning that Mayor Kevin Johnson primarily used a private email account with his staff while in public office, the Sacramento News & Review issued a Freedom of Information request to gain access to (then) Mayor Kevin Johnson's emails. An attorney for the city deemed the emails public property, but instead of handing them over, the Mayor moved to sue the Sacramento News & Review and the city of Sacramento. In response to the lawsuit, the Sacramento News & Review published a cover story where, according to their statement, a cartoon depicts Kevin Johnson as "sweaty and nervous while reading about his lawsuit against this paper and allegations of email misuse." Betty Williams, the former president of Sacramento's local NAACP and a longtime associate of Kevin Johnson, released a statement criticizing the paper for its "racially biased news coverage" of the mayor, mainly referring to the cartoon portrayal of the mayor. The lawsuit and the allegations of racially biased news coverage attracted the attention of Deadspin who began covering the story, bringing national attention to the many allegations against Kevin Johnson, including allegations of sexual assault and harassment. This national attention put pressure on ESPN to not air a film praising Kevin Johnson's work in Sacramento with the Sacramento Kings and their new downtown arena. Almost immediately after ESPN pulled the film, Kevin Johnson announced that he would not be seeking another term as Mayor of the City of Sacramento. In March 2016, the News & Review was recognized by the James Madison Freedom of Information Awards for its significant contributions to advancing freedom of information for this legal battle to obtain Sacramento Mayor Kevin Johnson's emails.
During partial eclipses of the Sun, another hazardous condition exists because of the way that the eye responds to bright light. The pupil is controlled by the total amount of light in the visual field, not by the brightest object in the field. During partial eclipses, most sunlight is blocked by the Moon passing directly in front of the Sun, but the uncovered parts of the photosphere have the same surface brightness as during a normal day. In the dim overall light, the pupil tends to dilate from ~2mm to perhaps 6mm diameter, increasing the eye's collecting area by a factor of nearly 10. Each retinal cell that is exposed to the partially-eclipsed solar image thus receives about ten times as much light as it would looking at the normal, non-eclipsed Sun. This can cause permanent localized damage to the retina, resulting in small, permanent blind spots for the viewer. This is an especially insidious hazard for inexperienced observers and for children, because there is no immediate perception of pain and it is tempting to stare at the spectacle of the eclipsing Sun.
Currently 2.73% of the MediaWiki messages and 0.07% of the messages of the extensions used by the Wikimedia Foundation projects have been localised. Please help us help your language by localising and proof reading at translatewiki.net. This is the recent localisation activity for your language. Thanks, GerardM 09:36, 1 ноября 2009 (UTC)
The Board of Education reacted by banning all but "polite dances" on school premises. However, the proscribed behavior persisted, and the Board then stopped all school dances. That continued until it became apparent that students were going to outside dances anyway and the efforts at control were abandoned.
The basic unit of decision making in an inclusive democracy is the demotic assembly, i.e. the assembly of demos, the citizen body in a given geographical area which may encompass a town and the surrounding villages, or even neighbourhoods of large cities. This is very close to the concept of the 'urban village' proposed today by supporters of de-growth economics. However, apart from local decisions, many important decisions are to be made at the regional or confederal level. This is why, as Serge Latouche observes, the aim of Inclusive Democracy "presupposes a confederation of demoi" made up of small, homogenous units of around 30,000 people. Therefore, an inclusive democracy today can only take the form of a confederal democracy that is based on a network of administrative councils whose members or delegates are elected from popular face-to-face democratic assemblies in the various demoi. Thus, their role is purely administrative and practical, not one of policy-making like that of representatives in representative democracy.
She Hobart y preeu-valley as y chaayr smoo 'sy steat, as t'eh goaill stiagh ny h-ardjyn Caayr Hobart, Caayr Glenorchy, as Caayr Clarence, as dy mennick ta'n fo-valley Kingston (cooid jeh Baljaght Kingborough) coontit myr cooid jeh ard Hobart Mooar. Ta buill chummaltagh vooarey goaill stiagh Launceston 'sy twoaie as Devonport as Burnie 'sy neear hwoaie. Ta'n ellan fo-antarctagh Ellan Macquarie currit fo reirey yn steat myr cooid jeh'n ard gurneilys ynnydagh Coonseil Ghlion Huon.
The main industrial activities o the oblast' are: chemical mechanical ingineerin, pumpin an energy mechanical ingineerin, agricultural machine-construction, instrument-makkin industry an radio electronics, technical equipment production for processin fields o agro-industrial complexes, minin an iron ore production industry, polygraph industry an medicine production, ile an gas processin, chemical production, film an photo material production (See: Svema), an chemical fertilizer production. In general, there are 273 lairge industry enterprises an 327 sma industry enterprises.
The dodo (Raphus cucullatus) is an extinct flichtless bird that wis endemic tae the island o Mauritius, east o Madagascar in the Indian Ocean.
paindustry vanopasa carbon dioxide through a liquid inotora carbon dioxide kana kupasa carbon dioxidd me pacopper yakaheater.In process lanobuda carbon monoxide.
Penschen Hiwwel ("Penion Hill", the high hill imediately east of Beck's Mills. During the decades before and following 1900 John Scherer lived on top of the hill. About 40 rods down the hill on the south side lived Noah Schweitzer. Both men were Civil War veterans, late draftees, and were said never to have seen the front line or battle. They were great talkers regarding their experiences. Coth received a Civil War pension, hence the name.)
The presence of Pomaks in Turkey. În: Voss, Christian & Klaus Steinke (ed.): The Pomaks in Greece and Bulgaria - a model case for borderland minorities in the Balkans. Südosteuropa-Studien 73, München (Biblion), 2007, pp. 227-234.
Wikimedia Commons celebrates our featured images of 2012 with this contest. Your votes decide the Picture of the Year, so remember to vote in the first round by January 30, 2013.
It serves the towns and cities of, from west to east, Lanark, Shannon, Forreston, Leaf River, Byron, Stillman Valley, Kirkland, Kingston, Genoa, Hampshire, Gilberts, Sleepy Hollow, West Dundee, East Dundee, South Barrington, Hoffman Estates, Schaumburg, Elk Grove Village, Des Plaines, Rosemont, and Chicago. Higgins Road/Higgins Avenue continues east-southeast from Harlem Avenue in Chicago to Milwaukee Avenue near Lawrence Avenue.
Dina Basa Inggris, disebut ogé "Paris of the East", "Queen of the Orient", "Pearl of the Orient", sarta "The Whore of Asia" (nujul kana korupsi dina taun 1920-an tur 1930-an, kaasup ubar-ubaran jeung prostitusi).
CBS employed many NBA greats during its 17 years as the lead network carrier; Bill Russell was an analyst for several years, mainly in the 1970s and early 1980s. Elgin Baylor was an analyst during CBS' inaugural year in 1973–1974, and was fired during that year's playoffs due to what CBS considered a lackluster performance. He was replaced by another NBA great, Rick Barry, who held a fairly consistent role with CBS through the 1970s and early 1980s, including calling several NBA Finals. Steve "Snapper" Jones, best known from the NBA on NBC, was part of CBS' broadcast teams, partnering with Don Criqui in 1975–1976 and 1976–1977.
Police are dispatched to rescue the President. However, Romero, the right-hand man of the Duke of New York, the top crime boss in the prison, warns them that the Duke has taken the President hostage, and that he will be killed if any further rescue attempts are mounted. Commissioner Bob Hauk offers a deal to Snake Plissken, a former Special Forces soldier convicted of attempting to rob the Federal Reserve in Denver: if Snake rescues the President and retrieves the cassette tape, Hauk will arrange a presidential pardon. To ensure his compliance, Hauk has Plissken injected with micro-explosives that will rupture Snake's carotid arteries within 22 hours; if Snake returns with the President and the tape in time, Hauk will have the explosives neutralized.
Take My Wife ek 2009 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Brett Carlson ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Matt Andrew, Rich Aronovitch, Annette Azcuy, Edward Enriquez-Cohen acting kiye the.
ආසවනය is the most common form of separation technology used in petroleum refineries, petrochemical and chemical plants , natural gas processing and cryogenic air separation plants. In most cases, the distillation is operated at a continuous steady state. New feed is always being added to the distillation column and products are always being removed. Unless the process is disturbed due to changes in feed, heat, ambient temperature, or condensing, the amount of feed being added and the amount of product being removed are normally equal. This is known as continuous, steady-state fractional distillation.
1857 to kexouchondr sen ho tornatto brahmo somazant ailo. 1859 to saun tannem somazachea vaurak nettan goti haddli. Brahmovid'daloi namvache dhormadhyainachem ek xikxonnokendr devendran suru kel'lem. Hea vid'daloyant kexouchondr sen dhormik totvogineanacher veakheanam ditalo ani devendr bongalint dhormavixim chorcha kortalo. Kexouchondr senan bhartantlea vhoddlea vhoddlea xarank bhetti divn inglixint brahmo dhormacho prochar kelo. 1860 to kexouchondr sen ani tachea vangddeamni 'songot sobha' hea navan ek somstha sthapon keli. He sobhen somazosevecho ani inglix xikxonnachea procharacho moladik vaur kelo. Kexouchondrache budhdimt'techo probhavo suxikxitancher boroch poddlo. Somazache mukhel achary axil'lea devendr hannem he acharyopod svota zaun kexouchondran aple bailek upasonent samil keli. Tachem onukoronn heramni-i kelem.
Mast, C. Z. and Robert E. Simpson (1942). Annals of the Conestoga Valley in Lancaster, Berks and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania. Scottdale, Pennsilfaani : Mennonite Publishing House, p. 267.
UY Scuti is a red supergiant star in the Scutum constellation. It is ane o the lairgest kent starns bi radius at 1,708 ± 192 solar radii, corresponding tae the diameter o 2,375,828,000 kilometers. If placed at the center o the Solar System, UY Scuti can engulf all the planets all the way to Jupiter, filling more than halfway through Saturn's orbit. It has a volume of approximately 5 billion times that of the Sun.
A similar non-wiki project, the GNUpedia project, co-existed with Nupedia early in its history; however, it has been retired and its creator, free-software figure Richard Stallman, has lent his support to Wikipedia.
Snijders, Paul, 'Schouten, Hubertus Johannes', in: Robert Aldrich en Garry Wotherspoon (redactie), Who's Who in Gay & Lesbian History. London/ New York, 2001.
Michael H. Crawford, 1985. Coinage and Money Under the Roman Republic in series Library of Numismatics (London: Methuen and Co. Ltd.), pages 84 – 102.
Bembera kana bembero (public veiled accusation in which the name of accused is not stated) zvinoreva kutaura nechinangwa chokupomera mhosva paruzhinji asi mutauri asiri kubuda pachena. Vamwe vangati kurova imbwa wakaviga mupinyi.
Magnesium was first produced by Sir Humphry Davy in England in 1808 using electrolysis of a mixture of magnesia and mercuric oxide. Antoine Bussy prepared it in coherent form in 1831. Davy’s first suggestion for a name was magnium, but the name magnesium is now used.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). "Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist.". Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
Gimbutas, Marija: Ancient symbolism in Lithuanian folk art. Philadelphia: American Folklore Society, 1958. Memoirs of the American Folklore Society 49.
Farrington, D. P. (1989c) Long-term prediction of offending and other life outcomes. In Wegener, H., Losel, F. and Haisch, J. (Eds.) Criminal Behaviour and the Justice System: Psychological Perspectives. New York: Springer-Verlag (pp. 26-39).
Anthony Stanislaus De Mello, Otumbrache 11ver 1900 vorsa Karachi zolmolo. Hache uprant to Sonarbhattant ailo. Taka lagun poilech pautt Bharat Desh Kriketchea molar sounsarant porzollo.
Momigliano, Arnaldo, "The Place of Herodotus in the History of Historiography", in Id., Secondo contributo alla storia degli studi classici, Roma 1960, pp. 29–44.
Effects of 7 Hz-modulated 450 mhz electromagnetic radiation on human performance in visual memory tasks (kaasautor). // International J. of Radiation Biology 78 (2002) 10.
Byzantium ek 2012 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK, USA, Ireland mein Neil Jordan ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Saoirse Ronan, Barry Cassin, Gemma Arterton, David Heap acting kiye the.
Howard, K. M. (2009). “When Meeting Khun Teacher, Each Time We Should Pay Respect”: Standardizing Respect In A Northern Thai Classroom. Linguistics and Education, 20(3), 254-272.
A memorial to the achievements of the MWSA currently stands on the lawn of the Minnesota State Capitol and is known as the Minnesota Woman Suffrage Memorial.
Aberfala a wra radn a bastel-vro Aberfala ha Cambron yn Senedh an Ruwvaneth Unys, hag a Gerrier yn governans ranndiryel. Desedhans cres an Unyversytys Kesunys in Kernow yw Tremogh, por ogas hag Aberfala, hag y'n dre hy honan yma Coljy Unyversyta Aberfala (neb era Coljy Artow Aberfala bys 2005). Drefen an yonkers ow studhya y'n kyrhyn, Aberfala a'n jeves an moyha helyow dons yn Kernow, woja Tewyn Pleustry.
Music of Eastern Europe, The Columbia University Collegium Musicum - Richard Taruskin, dir., Collegium Records JE 106 / 107 [LPx2] Anon., Glogauer Liederbuch / Firmin Caron: Derr seiden schwanz / Ave sidus clarissimum
ຄ.ສ. 1977: The syntax of infinitival formations in the Indo-European languages. (Europäische Hochschulschriften, 21/3), 360 pp.; Frankfurt, Bern, Las Vegas: Lang 1978. Dissertation
Strontium is the fifteenth-most-abundant element in the Earth's crust. Most strontium is found in the minerals celestite and strontianite. Barium is slightly less common, much of it in the mineral barite.
Inscriptions foond in the region aroond Lake Sevan attributit tae Keeng Artaxias I confirm that in the 2nt century BC the Destrict o Syunik constitutit pairt o the Auncient Armenie.
F. Pilcher, S. Mottola, T. Denk (2012): Photometric lightcurve and rotation period of Himalia (Jupiter VI). Icarus 219, 741-742. (Bestimmung von der Rotationsperiod)
Martin Karplus and Richard N. Porter. Atoms and Molecules: An Introduction for Students of Physical Chemistry. W. A. Benjamin, Eabhraig Nuadh 1970.
The human mouth is covered by an upper and lower lip. They play an important role in speech (it is part of the vocal apparatus), facial expression, kissing, drinking (especially with a straw), and smoking. Infants are born with a sucking reflex, by which they instinctively know to suck for nourishment using their lips and jaw. Lips are often adorned with lipstick or lip gloss although in most human cultures this is an affectation for females only. The philtrum is the vertical groove in the upper lip, formed where the nasomedial and maxillary processes meet during embryo development. When these processes fail to fuse fully, a hare lip and/or cleft palate can result. The nasolabial folds are the deep creases of tissue that extend from the nose to the sides of the mouth. One of the first signs of age on the human face is the increase in prominence of the nasolabial folds.
UNMIT is supported by an Australian-led International Stabilisation Force (ISF). The ISF was deployed to East Timor in late May 2006 and currently includes units from the Australian Defence Force and the New Zealand Defence Force. The main element of the ISF is the ANZAC Battle Group, which has a strength of about 400 Australians and 150 New Zealanders as at August 2010.
This arrondissement is the least geographically extended but the most populated of the department, with 10 cantons, 43 towns representing 343,583 inhabitants.
The town was established in 1963 on the farm De Hoop as a black township, and became part of Bophuthatswana in 1977. At that time, the town was renamed from De Hoop to Itsoseng.
Sun Yat-sen (/ˈsʊn ˈjɑːtˈsɛn/; 12 November 1866 – 12 Mairch 1925) wis a Cheenese revolutionary, first preses an foondin faither o the Republic o Cheenae, an medical practeetioner.
Ta Raad Mooar Ree Gorree (Ladjyn: Via Lactea, Baarle: The Milky Way) cho-rollageys t'ayns y phossan ynnydagh jeh co-rollageyssyn. Ta Corys ny Greiney soit ayns Raad Mooar Ree Gorree. Ta cummey boandey er Raad Mooar Ree Gorree er-yn-oyr dy nee strughtoor as cummey jysk echey eh as shinyn jeeaghyn er veih'n çheu sthie. 'Sy vlein 1610 ren Galileo Galilei shickyraghey dy nee rollageyn er lheh yn boandey sollysh shen tra ren eh ymmyd jeh'n 'odreayrtan echey. Ayns ny 1920yn ren Edwin Hubble taishbyney nagh row ayns Raad Mooar Ree Gorree agh fer jeh ram co-rollageyssyn.
Whether you need a small or large amount of funds, Project Grants can support you and your team’s project development time in addition to project expenses such as materials, travel, and rental space.
Other adjustments that CBS made in hopes of improving its coverage included hiring reporter Sonny Hill to cover the league on a full-time basis. CBS also put microphones and cameras on team huddles to allow viewers to see and hear coaches at work. Finally, CBS introduced a halftime segment called Red Auerbach on Roundball, featuring the Hall of Fame Boston Celtics coach. The segment intended to not only educate CBS' viewers about the complexities of the pro game, but also to teach young players how to improve their skills. They also subtly introduced audiences to an all-star team based on Auerbach's criteria such as screening and passing. In a Red on Roundball halftime segment which appeared on CBS' NBA telecasts in the 1973–74 season, Auerbach and referee Mendy Rudolph discussed and demonstrated the practice of flopping with obvious disapproval.
Kristoneth yw kryjyans poesek y'n bys ma, gans moy ages diw vil vilvil a gryjygyon. An Drynses yw dyskas chyf Kristoneth: henn yw, yma Dyw unnik gans tri ferson – Dyw an Tas, Yesu Krist, ha'n Spyrys Sans. Yma lies eglos kristyon; an moyha anedha yw an Eglos Katholik Romanek. Kristoneth yw kryjyans an brassa niver a dus yn Europa, Amerika, Afrika Is-Sahara, Ostralasi, ha'n Filipinys.
Student reaction to the Vietnam War was a nationwide phenomenon, and Columbia provided no exception to the pattern. A Student Peace Group was organized at Columbia in 1968, and over 300 students actively participated. Members wore black armbands on April 26 of that year, and a community rally was held the next day with faculty members present. On March 17, 1969, 43 Columbia students were suspended for distributing leaflets in school. The American Civil Liberties Union agreed to defend the students, but the issue later became moot when, over a period of time, the students were reinstated.
Demographic Yearbook—Table 3: Population by sex, rate of population increase, surface area and density (pdf), United Nations Statistics Division, 2007, retrieved 2009-08-26
Mustrangi, M. A., and J. L. Patton. 1997. Phylogeography and systematics of the slender mouse opossum Marmosops (Marsupialia, Didelphidae). University of California Publications in Zoology 130:1-86
On May 17, 1974, The New York Times ran the story of DeFreeze and the Los Angeles Police Department. However, the story was largely overlooked due to this being the day of the shoot out and conflagration that killed DeFreeze and five other members of the SLA.
del Hoyo J., Elliott A. & Sargatal J. (1997) Handbook of the Birds of the World, Volume 4, Sandgrouse to Cuckoos. BirdLife International, Lynx Edicions, Barcelona, 679 p.
Ta'n Colaashtey Reeoil soit ayns Lunnin. Ta scoillyn mooarey ellyn elley goaill stiagh Slade School of Fine Art; ny shey scoillyn ayns Ollooscoill yn Ellyn Lunnin, as ad goaill stiagh Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design as Chelsea College of Art and Design; Scoill Ellyn Ghlaschu, as Goldsmiths, Ollooscoill Lunnin. Ta'n ventyr traghtee shoh nane jeh sheshaghtyn toshee ny Bretyn Mooar ayns ellyn reayrtagh. Ta ellyneyryn Goaldagh goaill stiagh y Reejerey Joshua Reynolds, Thomas Gainsborough, John Constable, William Blake, J. M. W. Turner, William Morris, L. S. Lowry, Francis Bacon, Lucian Freud, David Hockney, Gilbert as George, Richard Hamilton, Peter Blake, Howard Hodgkin, Antony Gormley, as Anish Kapoor. Rish ny 1980yn as ny 1990yn, hug y Saatchi Gallery ayns Lunnin possan ellyneyryn yl-cheirdagh gys arrey yn phobble as yn ennym Ellyneyryn Aegey Goaldagh currit orroo. Tan possan shoh goaill stiagh lheid as Damien Hirst, Chris Ofili, Rachel Whiteread, Tracey Emin, Mark Wallinger, Steve McQueen, Sam Taylor-Wood, as ny Braaryn Chapman.
1st place in General Excellence, Best Investigative Reporting, Best Front Page (tabloid), Coverage of local government in 2015, California Newspaper Publishers Association
Ta'n queiggey goll er rheynn magh eddyr daa steat; ta Coontae yn Chavan, Coontae Ghoon ny Ghoal as Coontae Vuinaghan soit ayns Pobblaght Nerin, as ta Coontae Aontrym, Coontae Ard Maghey, Coontae yn Doon, Coontae 'er Managh, Coontae Ghoirrey as Coontae Heer Eoin 'sy Reeriaght Unnaneysit. Ny coondaeghyn 'sy Reeriaght Unnaneysit, t'ad jannoo seose y çheer t'er enney myr Nerin Hwoaie. She Beeal Feirshtey y chaayr smoo 'sy wheiggey as ny smoo na 500,000 dooinney cummal 'syn ard moirvaljagh echey.
The Partisan Prohibitions were repealed during the Yellow Turban Rebellion and Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion in 184 AD, largely because the court did not want to continue to alienate a significant portion of the gentry class who might otherwise join the rebellions. The Yellow Turbans and Five-Pecks-of-Rice adherents belonged to two different hierarchical Daoist religious societies led by faith healers Zhang Jue (d. 184 AD) and Zhang Lu (d. 216 AD), respectively. Zhang Lu's rebellion, in modern northern Sichuan and southern Shaanxi, was not quelled until 215 AD. Zhang Jue's massive rebellion across eight provinces was annihilated by Han forces within a year, however the following decades saw much smaller recurrent uprisings. Although the Yellow Turbans were defeated, many generals appointed during the crisis never disbanded their assembled militia forces and used these troops to amass power outside of the collapsing imperial authority.
Moldova (known locally as Moldovan, and asserted by nationalists to be a separate sprǣc, an assertion disputed by most professional linguists)
Yn le es vledhen an obernerth a efanas a 130 yn 1851 dhe 460. Hwel Feniks a dhuryas dhe efani ha'n obernerth a devas yn fast dhe dhres 600 erbynn an 1870ow a-varr. Yn 1875 Feniks West veu komprehendyes y'n sett ha'n moon wiskys veu dannvenys yn-nans an Hyns-horn Lyskerrys ha Karn nowyth, gans glow rag a jynnow-pren ow tos yn y vann.
The sister o the Baron o Almenar, Isabel de Viala d'Aiguavives financit an patroned the modrenist kirk o Ca n'Aguilera an aw which wis donatit tae Barcelona's Bishop bi Zaragoza de Viala faimily on 1921. The airchitect o Ca N'Aguilera modrenist kirk is Francesc Berenguer i Mestres, who wis Antoni Gaudi's disciple an personal friend.
Fredrik Drevon (født 27. oktober 1973) er en norsk litteraturviter, sakprosaforfatter og frilansjournalist. Han skrev sin hovedoppgave i litteraturvitenskap ved UiO i 1999, kalt The babe in the bottle – an approach to self-identity through language and narrative in Brave New World.
1961-1962, 1962-1963, 1968-1969, 1970-1971, 1971-1972, 1972-1973, 1986-1987, 1987-1988, 1992-1993, 1993-1994, 1996-1997, 1997-1998, 1998-1999, 1999-2000, 2001-2002, 2005-2006, 2007-2008
The Ford Ka is a city caur frae the Ford Motor Company marketit in Europe an elsewhere. The name is offeecially pronounced as Ka (/ˈkɑː/, that is, like "caur" in non-rhotic dialects o Inglis) as can be heard in Ford's advertisin. The current European version is produced in Tychy, Poland, while the model sold in Latin Americae is built in Brazil an Argentinae.
The FGC railwey line R6 frae Martorell an Barcelona tae Igualada runs throu the toun, while local roads lead tae Capellades an Sant Sadurní d'Anoia.
Copanatoyac is ane o the 81 municipalities o Guerrero, in sooth-wastren Mexico. The municipal seat lees at Copanatoyac. The municipality covers a aurie o 388.4 km².
Yth esa'n 1980ow termyn a boyntys ughel hag isel rag Bal Mena Wellington ha'y valyow-hwor. Mes, awos gas metheyn esa ow tos a skollvaow Konsel Kernow dhe Wonow Unys, an chons a dardhow yn-dann dhor a gressyas. Yn mis Meurth 1991 Hwel Jenna, ow komprehendya Bal Mena Wellington ha'n balyow-hwor, veu deges.
In human evolution, the chin is a cladistic apomorphy, partially defining anatomically modern humans as distinct from archaic forms. Non-human anthropoid apes have a simian shelf for example. Elephants are the only other animals considered to display such a feature, although this leads to debate over the use of the term.
Puntland initially uised a variation o the banner o Somalie as its provincial banner. On 22 December 2009, the regional pairlament introducit a new state banner. The design wis decidit on bi a commission consistin o govrenment officials an local intellectuals.
Jammu Africa / Nafantav / Sofia / Tajabone / Raciste / Nabou / Without Blame / Dibi Dibi Rek / Lotte Lo / Souleymane / Samba Et Leuk / Takou Deneu / Khar
The economical base for Manama is identical to Barain as a whole - petroleum, oil refining, dhow building, fiscaþ and meregrot dyfung. Manama is served by Barain International Flyhthæfen on þǣm īeglande Al Muharraq, to which it is connected with a causeway. Manama ēac is ham for þone University of Barain, which man āstealde in 1986.
She noaskeealagh aitt Sostnagh va Sir Pelham Grenville Wodehouse, KBE (15 Jerrey Fouyir 1881 – 14 Toshiaght Arree 1975) (ˈwʊdhaʊs), as haink lesh dy trome as enney mie er car coorse-bea erskyn tree feed blein as jeih. T’eh goll er lhaih dy cadjin foast. Ga dy row anvea politickagh as sheshoil er e vea (as eshyn ayns Yn Rank as ny Steaytyn Unnaneysit rish cooid mooar jeh), dys y jerrey she sheshaght sleih ooasle Sostynagh roish y chaggey va’n chooish mooar ec Wodehouse, aahoilshaghey y ruggyr, ynsee as keird aegid echey hene.
Artemisa wis an important source o fechters supportin Fidel Castro's Revolution durin the attack on "Cuartel Moncada" in Santiago de Cuba (1953) an Sierra Maestra Guerrilla (1956–1959). The Martyrs Mausoleum (Mausoleo de los Mártires) in Artemisa is a Naitional Monument o Cuba.
Sydney, Australia ke east coast me ek city hae. Sydney, New South Wales ke capital city hae. Iske abaadi lag bhag 4 million hae aur ii Australia ke sab se barraa city hae. Iske 1788 me England se chorr loan ke basae khatir banawa gais rahaa.
Creative Commons (CC) គឺជា អង្គការមិនរកប្រាក់កម្រៃមួយដែលមានមូលដ្ឋានទីស្នាក់ការកណ្ដាលនៅទីក្រុង Mountain View, រដ្ឋ California, សហរដ្ឋអាមេរិក , devoted to expanding the range of creative works available for others to build upon legally and to share. The organization has released several copyright-licenses known as អាជ្ញាបណ្ណ Creative Commons free of charge to the public. These licenses allow creators to communicate which rights they reserve, and which rights they waive for the benefit of recipients or other creators. An easy-to-understand one-page explanation of rights, with associated visual symbols, explains the specifics of each Creative Commons license. Creative Commons licenses do not replace copyright, but are based upon it. They replace individual negotiations for specific rights between copyright owner (licensor) and licensee, which are necessary under an "all rights reserved" copyright management with a "some rights reserved" management employing standardized licenses for re-use cases where no commercial compensation is sought by the copyright owner. The result is an agile, low-overhead and low-cost copyright-management regime, profiting both copyright owners and licensees. Wikipedia uses one of these licenses.
We regret that you receive this message in English; we intended to use banners to notify you in your native language but there was both, human and technical resistance.
"Negro History: European Government in Africa," The Lincolnian, 12 April, 1938, p. 2 (Lincoln University, Pennsylvania) - véase Special Collections and Archives, Lincoln University
KunMo Chung, Republic of Korea, former member, INSAG; former minister, Science &Technology, Republic of Korea; former president, Korean Academy of Science & Technology; former president, General Conference, IAEA; former vice chair, World Energy Council
Biggs, Bruce (1988). Towards the study of Maori dialects. In Ray Harlow and Robin Hooper, eds. VICAL 1: Oceanic languages. Papers from the Fifth International Conference on Austronesian linguistics. Auckland, New Zealand. January 1988, Part I. Auckland: Linguistic Society of New Zealand.
WILSON, D. E., REEDER, D. M. eds. (2005). Mammal Species of the World: A Taxonomic and Geographic Reference. 3ª ed. Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore, Maryland, 2.142 pp. 2 vol.
In the 1970s she wis heid-huntit bi ITN tae become their first female newscaster. But Mary Marquis preferred tae stay in Glesga whaur she coud leuk efter her mither an faimily, an the job insteid went tae Anna Ford in 1978.
The name Bulawayo is imported frae Nguniland which is a place ance occupied bi the Khumalo fowk. The place still exists an it is next tae Richards Bay.
She lus vleeantagh ee brashlagh (Sinapis arvensis). T'ee dooghyssagh da'n Oarpey as t'ee er ny jannoo dooie ayns America Hwoaie myrgeddin myr sarkyl.
Garcia wrote a book on marijuana cultivation, called Primo Plant: Growing Sinsemilla Marijuana, first published in 1976 by Bookpeople. Garcia currently sits on the boards of the Rex Foundation and the Furthur Foundation, and is on the advisory board of the Marijuana Policy Project. She formerly served on the board of the Women's Visionary Council. Garcia lives near her daughter Annabelle and the Kesey family farm in Pleasant Hill, Oregon.
The branch of physics that deals with solids is called solid-state physics, and is a type of condensed matter physics. Materials science is primarily concerned with properties of solids such as strength and phase transformations. It overlaps strongly with solid-state physics. Solid-state chemistry overlaps both of these fields, but is especially concerned with the synthesis of novel materials.
In 2004, Jim Nantz and Greg Gumbel swapped roles. Nantz took Gumbel's place as the lead play-by-play announcer while Gumbel took Nantz's spot as the host of The NFL Today.
Vande Winkel, Roel: The Auxiliary Cruiser Thor's Death and Transfiguration. A Case Study in Nazi Wartime Newsreel Propaganda. In: Historical Journal of Film, Radio and Television, Jg. 23, 2003, Nº 3, pp. 211–229.
Stephen John Stedman & Fred Tanner (ed.) Refugee manipulation - war, politics, and the abuse of human suffering, Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press, 2003
The College is a religious institution where it observes certain religious festivals namely: Holi, Sanatan Diwas, Ram Naumi, Hanuman Jayanti, Krishan Janam Astmi, Deepawali and Moata Saraswati Pooja.
Schofield, Robert E. (1963). The Lunar Society, A Social History of Provincial Science and Industry in Eighteenth Century England. Clarendon Press.
Day of the Falcon ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film France, Italy, Qatar, Tunisia mein Jean-Jacques Annaud ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Tahar Rahim, Antonio Banderas, Mark Strong, Freida Pinto acting kiye the.
Lichk (Armenie: Լիճք, Romanisit as Lichk’ an Lichq an aw; umwhile Turkis: Gël an Gyol; aw names meanin "lake") is a veelage locatit sooth o Lake Sevan in the Gegharkunik province o Armenie. Although the veelage wis foondit in 1830, thare are ruins o earlier habitation includin remains o a medieval toun. Thare are the ruins o the early Tsaghkavank which sit adjacent tae the kirk o S. Astvatsatsin. Tsaghkavank owerleuks the toun o Lichk upon a hill, an the portion that remains is a circular cylindrical waw wi a vera sma entry. The kirk o S. Astvatsatsin is a sma basilica wi some broken khachkars an gravestanes embeddit intae its waws. Thare is a 13t century cemetery wi numerous khachkars that sits on the same hill as the twa kirks. Nearbi is a cyclopean fort.
Theophilus, On Divers Arts: The foremost medieval treatise on Painting, Glassmaking and Metalwork. Hawthorne, J.H. & Smith, C.S. (trans), 1979. New York: Dover Publication Edgar Zilse.
Kuchichinura (Acquire, obtain large amount) kana kurokota Vanhu vanoenda kusero ndivo vanochichinura zvizhinji: people who go to a sale are the ones who get many things.
A compromise between the two has a small cadre of professional NCOs (non-commissioned officers) and officers who act as a skeleton for a much larger force. When war comes, this skeleton is filled out with conscripts or reservists (former full-time soldiers who volunteer for a small stipend to occasionally train with the cadre to keep their military skills intact), who form the wartime unit. This balances the pros and cons of each basic organization, and allows the formation of huge armies (in terms of millions of combatants), necessary in modern large scale warfare.
Medial cord: Medial anterior thoracic (8 C, 1 T), Medial antibrachial cutaneous, Medial brachial cutaneous, Ulnar, Medial head of median, Upper subscapular (5, 6 C), Lower subscapular (5, 6 C.)
United States Institute of Peace online training course for OSCE required for U.S. citizens hired by the Organization. Provides a detailed outline of the OSCE, with additional modules on éach major aréa that it is involved in. Website freely available, but tests only given to those who have submitted applications.
Wilmerding, Jr., Lucius, James Monroe: Public Claimant (1960) A study regarding Monroe's attempts to get reimbursement for personal expenses and losses from his years in public service after his Presidency ended.
It is easy to remember noting that the alphabetical order of the letters A, G, and H is preserved in the inequality. See Inequality of arithmetic and geometric means.
Enkinu or enkunu are formed by blending from the Luganda phrase "enkula ey'ekinu"(a shape which looks like a local mortar). This is its local etymological definition.
Joh. R1713a R1713a R1713a R1780 R1780 R1780 R1780 R1780 R1780 R1780 R1780 R1820a R1820a R1820a R1820a R1820a R1820a R1820a R1820b R1820b R1820b R1820b R1820b R1820b R1860a R1860b R1860b R1860b 1860c 1860c H1535 H1535 H1606 H1780a H1824a H1824b H1824c H1824d H1860b H1860b Hm1860a S1535b S1568a S1568b St606a S1606a S1606a S1606a S1606b S1606b S1606b S1606b S1606b S1606b S1812a S1812a S1812a S1812a S1812b S1812b S1812b S1812b S1812b S1812c S1812c S1812c S1829a S1829a S1829a S1829a S1829a S1829a S1829a S1829a S1829a S1829b S1829b S1829b S1829b S1829b S1829c S1829c S1829d S1829d S1829d S1829e S1840a S1840a S1840a S1840a S1840a S1840a S1840b S1840b S1840b S1840b S1840b S1840c S1860a S1860a S1860a S1860# S1860a S1860b S1860b S1860b S1860b S1860b S1860b S1860c S1860c S1860d S1860d S1860d S1860d S1860d S1860d S1860d S1860e S1860e S1860f S1860f S1860f U1535 U1820a U1820b U1820b U1820b U1820b U1820b U1820b U1820b U1820b St1749 St1820a St1820a St1820b St1820c St1820c St1860b St1860b St1860c B1820a B1820b B1820b B1840 R1713b R1713b R1713b R1713b R1713b R1713b R1713c R1713c R1713c U1860b U1860b U1860b B1860a B1860b B1860b B1860c B1860c B1860c
"At 93, a Party Girl Is Silent No More", photographs, interview and article by Bruce Bennett, in the U.S. edition of The Wall Street Journal, September 5, 2012, page A19.
The Government of India plans to start a training centre here to understand and implement હઝારે's watershed development model in other villages in the country.
ຄ.ສ. 1990: Iranica Armeno-Iberica. A study of Iranian loan words in Armenian and Georgian, 451 + 389 pp.; Vienna: Austrian Academy of Sciences 1993. Inaugural dissertation.
Foddee dy vel arraghey troailtee ny arraghey theayagh, raad dy vel obbreyderyn kiarail shirveishyn skedjallit, ny ny arraghey preevadjagh. Haink er arraghey lughtee dy ve jeerit er cummeydaneaghey, ga dy vel arraghey lughtee thummidagh ymmydit ry hoi thummidyn mooarey dy nheeghyn foddey-heilltagh. Ta scansh vooar ec yn arraghey ayns bishaghey tarmaynagh as cruinneydaght, agh ta builley foudagh echey er y çhymmyltaght. Choud's ta argid choonee currit ayn liorish reiltyssyn, ta plannal mie ymmyrçhagh dys raad y hoyrt da stroo mie ny traghtey, as dys smaght y chur er surlley baljagh.
Harry Potter an the Hauf-Bluid Prince (Inglis: Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince) is the saxt an penultimate novelle in the Harry Potter series, written bi Breetish author J. K. Rowling. Set during protagonist Harry Potter's saxt year at Hogwarts, the novelle splores the past o Harry's nemesis, Lord Voldemort, an Harry's preparations for the final battle against Voldemort alangside his heidmaster an mentor Albus Dumbledore.
In Point Pleasant is 1822 da spadare US-President Ulysses S. Grant geboan worn. Sei Gebuatshaus, a oagschossiga Hoizbau, is 1817 earichdt worn.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 24,108 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 186.01 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 5606.
Gansu: a Cithakan:Convert/ft slope at an angle of 15 degrees where water runs uphill, in a desert region of Yugur County. The site has been tested by scientists, including physics professor Fang Xiaoming from Lanzhou University.
The breeding season is March to December peaking from June to August in India, coinciding with the wet season. In Sri Lanka the main breeding periods are March to May and August to September, although they can breed throughout the year.
Affliction ek 1997 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA, Canada mein Paul Schrader ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Nick Nolte, Brigid Tierney, Holmes Osborne, Jim True-Frost acting kiye the.
The alkaline earth metals all react with the halogens to form ionic halides, such as calcium chloride (Template:Chem), as well as reacting with oxygen to form oxides such as strontium oxide (Template:Chem). Calcium, strontium, and barium react with water to produce hydrogen gas and their respective hydroxides, and also undergo transmetalation reactions to exchange ligands.
Birjand (Persie: بیرجند, Romanizit as Bīrjand an Birdjand an aw) is the east Iranian provincial caipital o Sooth Khorasan an the centre o the Birjand Coonty. Quhestan, kent for its saffron, barberry, rug an handmade cairpet exports. [1] The ceety o Birjand haed a population o 157,848 fowk at the time o the last offeecial census in 2006.
Lorenzo Fernandez Cosgaya. Diccionario Pangasinan-Espanol and Vocabulario Hispano-Pangasinan (Colegio de Santo Tomas, 1865). This is available in the Internet at the University of Michigan's Humanities Text Initiative.
During the Hearst kidnapping saga, two of the families of SLA members, including Willie Wolfe's father, contracted Headley to investigate the matter.
From about 0.7 solar radii to 1.0 solar radii, the material in the Sun is neither dense nor hot enough to transfer the heat energy of the interior outward. As a result, thermal convection carries the heat to the surface as thermal columns carry hot material to the surface (photosphere) of the Sun. Once the material cools off at the surface, it plunges back downward to the base of the convection zone, to receive more heat from the top of the radiative zone. There is a bit of convective overshoot at the base of the convection zone, carrying turbulent downflows into the top layers of the radiative zone.
Schetini de Azevedo, Cristiano; Penha Tinoco, Herlandes; Bosco Ferraz, João & Young, Robert John (2006): The fishing rhea: a new food item in the diet of wild greater rheas (Rhea americana, Rheidae, Aves). Revista Brasileira de Ornitologia 14(3): 285-287 [English with Portuguese abstract]. PDF fulltext
Neptune is the aicht an farthest planet frae the Sun in the Solar Seestem. It is the fowert-lairgest planet bi diameter an the third-lairgest bi mass. Amang the gaseous planets in the solar seestem, Neptune is the maist dense. Neptune is 17 times the mass o Yird an is slichtly mair massive than its near-twin Uranus, which is 15 times the mass o Earth but nae as dense. On average, Neptune orbits the Sun at a distance o 30.1 AU, approximately 30 times the Yird–Sun distance. Named for the Roman god o the sea, its astronomical seembol is ♆, a stylised version o the god Neptune's trident.
This language support team will be asked to provide us with information about their language. Such information may need to be provided either to us or on a website that we will indicate to you. Another activity will be to test software that will likely have an effect on the running of the MediaWiki software. We are looking for people who clearly identify their ability. Formal knowledge is definitely appreciated.
Verizon Wireless in the U.S. provides a number of OTA functions to its subscribers via the *228 service code. Option 1 updates phone configuration, option 2 updates the PRL.
Mingzhu generator（zh-tw）: Chu Bong Foo's page. Includes the executable, sourcecode and instructions. Mingzhu is a Canjie character generator that runs on MS Windows ' "DOS PROMPT". It requires Microsoft Macro Assembler and Link.
In Scandinavie kintras, Setturday is caad Lördag or Laurdag etc., the name camin fae the auld wird laugr, meanin bath, thus Lördag equates tae bath-day.
The city is divided into six legislative districts and consists of sixteen areas: Binondo, Ermita, Intramuros, Malate, Paco, Pandacan, Port Area, Quiapo, Sampaloc, San Andres, San Miguel, San Nicolas, Santa Ana, Santa Cruz, Santa Mesa and Tondo. Bustling commerce and some of the most historically and culturally significant iconic landmarks in the country, as well as the seat of the executive and judicial branches of the government are found in the city. Manila is also home to many scientific and educational institutions, numerous sport facilities, and other culturally and historically significant venues.
Craddock, Robert A (2000). „Analyses of Rock Size-Frequency Distributions and Morphometry of Modified Hawaiian Lava Flows: Implications for Future Martian Landing Sites” (PDF). Lunar and Planetary Institute.
Hughes, Scott A. (2005). «Trust but verify: The case for astrophysical black holes». arXiv: hep-ph/0511217 [hep-ph]. Lecture notes from 2005 SLAC Summer Institute.
Antsla Pairish (Estonie: Antsla vald) is a landwart municipality o Estonie, in Võru Coonty. It haes a population o 4,190 (as o 1 Januar 2009) an a aurie o 270.79 km2 (105 sq mi).
Alushta (Ukrainian an Roushie: Алу́шта; Crimean Tatar: Aluşta; Greek: Alouston) is a ceety o regional signeeficance on the soothren coast o the Autonomous Republic o Crimea in Ukraine claimed bi Roushie as the Republic o Crimea.
Machik Labdron. 2003. Machik's Complete Explanation: Clarifying the Meaning of Chöd: A Complete Explanation of Casting Out the Body as Food (Phung po gzan skyur gyi rnam bshad gcod kyi don gsal byed). Sarah Harding, trans. Ithaca, NY: Snow Lion.
A photograph of his son, X Tecumseh Clark (born October 7, 1984), was featured on the cover art of Canadian electronic music band Crystal Castles' second eponymous album in 2010.
Amakuru arambuye ku mahame y'imikorere ya MAG n'ibishingirwaho mu gutoranya abayigize bikubiye muri the summary report of its Gashyantare meeting available at [1]
A number line is usually drawn as a simple horizontal line. Another form is the helical number line. If the line of numbers is wrapped around a cylinder following an upward helical path, it becomes a helical number line. If the circumference of the cylinder is equal to the length occupied by ten numbers on the number line, it then becomes a decimal helical number line, and the numbers arrange themselves into columns, each number in a particular column having the same number ending.
pànṣárá, n. a broad wicker tray on which articles are exposed for sale. Ó lé obì lé orí pàǹsárá. (She arranged the kolanuts in little piles on a broad wicker tray on which articles are exposed for sale.)
Reminiscences of a voyage to Shetland, Orkney & Scotland in the summer of 1839; translated from Danish by Catherine Spence. Lerwick: T. & J. Manson, 1896.
The first discussion draft of the GNU Free Documentation License version 2 was released on 26 Septemba 2006, along with a draft of the new GNU Simpler Free Documentation License.
Psalm 115:1, Haiwa kwetiri, A Mambo Mwari, haiwa kwetiri, asi ipa kunezina rako kuirikidzwa, ngendaa yenyasha dzako dzinorudo nokugondeka kwako.: Not to us, Lord, not to us but to your name be the glory, because of your love and faithfulness.. (kubva muBhaibheri reChiNdau).
Gunfight at the O.K. Corral is a 1957 American western film starring Burt Lancaster as Wyatt Earp and Kirk Douglas as Doc Holliday, based on a real event which took place on October 26, 1881. The picture was directed by John Sturges from a screenplay written by novelist Leon Uris.
By 1975, CBS had several themes (technically, CBS had different opening songs and graphics per crew) to open their broadcasts. They ranged from David Shire's "Manhattan Skyline" from the Saturday Night Fever soundtrack to "Fly, Robin, Fly" by the Silver Convention.
Coburn was born on August 31, 1928 in Laurel, Nebraska, the son of James Harrison Coburn II and Mylet Coburn. His father was of Scottish-Irish ancestry and his mother was an immigrant from Sweden. The elder Coburn had a garage business that was destroyed by the Great Depression. Coburn himself was raised in Compton, California, where he attended Compton Junior College. In 1950, he enlisted in the United States Army, in which he served as a truck driver and occasionally a disc jockey on an Army radio station in Texas. Coburn also narrated Army training films in Mainz, Germany.
Cha nel argane erbee ec breear neu-ioosagh, m.s. T'eh ceau fliaghey. Ga dy vel eh ayn, cha nel shen agh far-chione gyn keeall. Cha nod oo cur kione erbee elley 'syn ynnyd echey.
Already has bot flag on: aa, am, ar, be-x-old, bn, bo, bug, bxr, cdo, co, crh, de, dsb, dz, ee, eo, fa, fj, fr, gv, hr, hsb, ht, ig, is, ja, ksh, ku, kv, lbe, lg, lmo, lo,lt, ml, mr, nds, new, nl, nn, nov, or, os, pms, simple, stq, sv, tg, to, ts, ty, vec, vi, vls, vo, yi, za, zea, zh-classical, more pending, cumulated data (sorry, the toolserver is having technical problems at the moment, so the data is partially not up to date)
Shinen, David C. and Marilene Shinen. 1978. "Some discourse features in Siberian Yupik Eskimo narrative." Work Papers of the Summer Institute of Linguistics, University of North Dakota 22: 29-46.
Bradley, S. M.1989. Hydrogen sulfide scavengers for the prevention of silver tarnishing. In Environmental monitoring and control, Dundee: SSCR and the Museums Association. 6567.
Ayns ny 1920yn, va'n Agglish ayns Bretin scarrit magh veih Agglish Hostyn as haink urree dy ve 'jee-vunnit'. Ta'n Agglish ayns Bretin foast 'sy Chommeeys Anglicaanagh. Ta'n Saasilaght as agglishyn seyrey elley troshtagh dy tradishoonagh ayns Bretin.
The ceety existin the day wis foondit in 1531 bi the Spainyie captain Nuño Beltrán de Guzmán an namit San Miguel de Culiacán. In the same decade, it wis the terminus o the lang jurney o Cabeza de Vaca an company amang natives. Splorer Francisco Vásquez de Coronado set oot frae Culiacán tae splore what is nou the soothwastren Unitit States. Settlers frae Europe came tae Culiacán, an in the follaein hunderyears, Culiacán continued tae be a quiet toun. It wis anerly efter the federal govrenment biggit dams in the adjacent auries in the 1950s that agricultur explodit an the ceety began tae grow exponentially. Some o Mexico's lairgest agricultural conglomerates operate in the vast an growthie coastal plains. The agro-industrial economy continues toaebe the single lairgest contributor tae the region's legal economy. While the vast majority o technical an skilled labor is eddicatit locally, the ance-seasonal field labor puil nou experiences a yearly shortage o wirkers. Internaitional patterns o migration nou draw laborers frae deep athin Mexico's sooth tae the northren border states an intae the Unitit States.
↑ According to the Kurd Idol's statemnent, Hêvî Zîn left the project because of political problems in Tirkiye, and was replaced by Eşkan Ebdulrehman. Kurd Idol Official Facebook page
Alternate set-ups may utilize a "ගවයා" or "ඌරා" which is connected to three or four receiving flasks. By turning the "ගවයා" or "ඌරා", the distillates can be channeled into the appropriate receiver. A Perkin triangle is versatile piece of apparatus that can also be used to collect distillation fractions which does not require a "ගවයා" or "ඌරා" adapter. A Perkin triangle is most often used where the distillates are air-sensitive or where the fractions distill and are collected under reduced pressure, but can be used for a simple and fractional distillation.
Goldzwig, Steven R. and George N. Dionisopoulos, eds. In a Perilous Hour: The Public Address of John F. Kennedy, text and analysis of key speeches (1995)
Yn Breten Veur, an term traktor-ethen a worr dhe'n byghanna patronyow a jynn-tenna ethen - yn tipek an re a boos seyth ton po le - eus devnydhyes rag dhe halya beghow byghan war fordhow poblek,
Rafferty, S.P., Guillemette, J.G., Smith, M., and Mauk, A.G. (1996). Azide binding and active site dynamics of position-82 variants of ferricytochrome c. Inorg. Chem. Acta.242: 171-177.
The Sunday afternoon, October 14, 2007 game between the New England Patriots and Dallas Cowboys on CBS, was viewed by 29.1 million people, making it the most-watched NFL Sunday game since the Dallas Cowboys–San Francisco 49ers game on November 10, 1996 on Fox (29.7 million viewers), according to Nielsen Media Research data. The game was also the most watched show on television for the week of October 8–14, drawing 9 million viewers more than CBS’ drama CSI (19.8 million viewers), and the most watched program of the season.
The Louisiana Sports Writers Association, the Louisiana Association of Basketball Coaches, and the National Association of Basketball Coaches (District 8) selected Kennedy coach of the year in 2004 end 2005.
In Rome, Pliny recommended that a wreath of mint was a good thing for students to wear since it was thought to 'exhilarate their minds'. Some modern research suggests that he was right.
Canada's offeicial leids is Inglis an French. The French is spak feckly in Quebec (or Québec in French). Its offeicial estimate o indwallers for 2013 is 35,158,300
In 1940 the Bíró brothers and a friend, Juan Jorge Meyne, moved to Argentina fleeing Nazi Germany and on June 10, filed another patent, and formed Bíró Pens of Argentina.
The northren pairt o the province is heichlie affectit bi the Chernobyl disaster: some o the touns an raions are devastatit an are includit in the Chernobyl zone, while ithers are prohibitit frae producin their awn agricultur.
In 2011, Free Software Foundation added CC0 to its free software licenses, making CC0 a recommended way of dedicating software to the public domain.
Organic Production and Organic Food: Information Access Tools. Identifies sources to research on organic agriculture topics from the Alternative Farming Systems Information Center, National Agricultural Library.
Robert Chazan, In the Year 1096: The First Crusade and the Jews. Jewish Publication Society, 1996 (also contains extracts from the Hebrew chronicles).
Rio Grande da Serra is one of the 39 municipalities (Prefeituras) in the state of São Paulo under the federal government of Brazil. The municipality is located approximately 49 kilometres (30 mi) by road to the southeast of the centre of the city of São Paulo according to Google Maps, 55 kilometres (34 mi) according to the municipal authorities. Under the Greater ABC region, its neighboring municipalities are Santo André, Ribeirão Pires and Suzano. It covers an area of 36.7 square kilometres (14.2 sq mi). With the city of São Paulo and the municipalities of Diadema, Mauá, Ribeirão Pires, Santo André, São Bernardo do Campo and São Caetano do Sul, it forms part of the Microregion of São Paulo. The principal road is SP-122 (Rodovia Deputado Antônio Adib Chammas), which links to Ribeirão Pires and Paranapiacaba. Paranapiacaba is a historical site approached by road (15 minutes drive) from Rio Grande da Serra, which has train link with Luz Station (Estaco da Luz) in São Paulo. The nearest international airport is the Cumbica at Guarulhos which is quite far from the city of São Paulo.
Gervasoni, Carlo, Nuova teoria di musica ricavata dall'odierna pratica (New theory of music distilled from modern-day practice) Milano: Blanchon, 1812.
Earl Canning, at Minto Park, read out the declaration of Queen Victoria's Proclamation which resulted in the complete transfer of control over भारत from The East India Company to the government of Britain (beginning the British Rule).
WCPO in Cincinnati, a CBS affiliate during the NBA on CBS era, did not carry many regular season games in the 1970s, deciding to run movies and other programming instead. The city had lost the Cincinnati Royals when they moved to Kansas City and Omaha in 1972; Cincinnati has not had an NBA team since. As an ABC affiliate post-1996, WCPO has carried that network's regular season (and playoffs) since ABC and ESPN gained broadcast rights to the NBA in 2002.
The Trustees responded in 1879 by resolving to erect a new brick building, of two stories, to accommodate between 220 and 240 pupils. The new structure was opened in 1880. The final cost of construction was $17,094.49. The building later became the northeast wing of the old South Orange Junior High School, demolished when the present middle school was built.
Greetings! The Project Grants program is accepting proposals from July 1st to August 2nd to fund new tools, research, offline outreach (including editathon series, workshops, etc), online organizing (including contests), and other experiments that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers.
Suttka / Exodus 34 : 29 - Moizes Sinai dongravelo denvlo. Dongravelo denvtana tachea hatamnim Koraracheô don pattiô asleô. Ani Sorvespora kodde uloilea uprant aplem tondd porzollit zalam mhonn Moizesak khobor nasli. / They carried off all their wealth, their children, and their women, and looted whatever was in the houses.
Samuel Johnson (24 June 1846 - 29 April 1901) je alufa ijo Anglikani omo Yoruba ti o ko itan Yoruba pelu akole A History of the Yorubas from the Earliest Times to the Beginning of the British Protectorate ti won tejade ni odun 1921 leyin iku re.
The Juno K wis a deliberately elaborate bike in 1954. It wis Honda's first scooter an woud be competin wi the well establisht Fuji Rabbit an Mitsubishi Silver Pigeon. It featurt the first electric stairt, a full windscreen wi a tilt-back sun-shade, an biggit-in signal lamps. It an aa introduced Fibre-Reinforced Plastic body construction tae Japan.
Complete translation on-line into English of all 108 Upaniṣad-s [not only the 11 (or so) major ones to which the foregoing links are meagerly restricted]-- lacking, however, diacritical marks
While Snake is forced to fight in a deathmatch with Slag, a prisoner, Brain and Maggie kill Romero and flee with the President. As Snake kills Slag, the Duke learns of Brain's treachery and rallies his gang to chase them. Snake, Brain, Maggie, and the President race to the World Trade Center in an attempt to use Snake's glider to escape from Manhattan. After a group of crazies destroy it, the group returns to the street and encounters Cabbie, who offers to take them across the bridge. When Cabbie reveals that he has the secret tape (having traded it to Romero earlier for his hat), the President demands it, but Snake keeps it.
Bell, Winthrop P. The "Foreign Protestants" and the Settlement of Nova Scotia: The History of a Piece of Arrested British Colonial Policy in the Eighteenth Century. (1961). reprint Fredericton, N.B.: Acadiensis for Mount Allison U., Cen. for Can. Studies, 1990. 673 pp.
In pheesics, the kinetic energy o an object is the energy which it possesses due tae its motion. It is defined as the wirk needit tae accelerate a body o a gien mass frae rest tae its statit velocity. Havin gained this energy durin its acceleration, the body maintains this kinetic energy unless its speed chynges. The same amoont o wirk is duin bi the body in deceleratin frae its current speed tae a state o rest.
Shulgin wis born in Berkeley, California. He wis o Roushie origin. His son, Theodore, deit fraw cancer on 15 Mey 2011. Afore he deit, he wis livin on a farm in Lafayette, California.
Battlefield Heroes ek 2011 mein bana Korean film hain. Yea film South Korea mein Joon-ik Lee ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jin-yeong Jeong, Mun-shik Lee, Seung-ryong Ryu, Je-mun Yun acting kiye the.
Clayton-Greene, K.: Web page titled "THE BLUEBERRY INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA: AN OVERVIEW" a summary of an article[2] at the Web site for the International Society for Horticultural Science. The article appears to have been written in the 1990s, accessed August 24, 2006.
Currently 2.79% of the MediaWiki messages and 0.07% of the messages of the extensions used by the Wikimedia Foundation projects have been localised. Please help us help your language by localising and proof reading at translatewiki.net. This is the recent localisation activity for your language. Thanks, GerardM 13:46, 4 января 2010 (UTC)
Izwi rinoshoshoma seromunhu akararodekura usi ku hwose: a voice that is hoarse, like that of a person who has been straining his voice all night.
The Centro Cultural Genaro Estrada, kent bi the locals as "Difocur", encompasses a theater, movie theatre, a cafe an a group o museums specialisit in local cultur. DIFOCUR is the hame o the Orquesta Sinfonica Sinaloa de las Artes an aw. The OSSLA performs a 42-week saison (September tae Juin) o symphony, pops, opera, ballet, an chamber muisic, an featurs muisickers frae mair nor fifteen different kintras, includin Mexico, the Unitit States, Ingland, Scotland, Canadae, Romanie, Argentinae, an ithers. Wirkin unner the auspicies o the govrenment o Sinaloa, the OSSLA performs mony ootreach an eddicational programs aroond the state o Sinaloa an aw, as well as throuoot Mexico.
If this page is not the best place to publicize this request for comment, please help spread the word to those who may be interested in participating. (If you'd like to help translating the "request for comment", program policy or other pages into your language and don't know how the translation system works, please come by my user talk page at m:User talk:Mdennis (WMF). I'll be happy to assist or to connect you with a volunteer who can assist.)
Beam, C.R. unn J.R. Brown (2004) The Comprehensive Pennsylvania German Dictionary Volume One: A, Millersville: Center for Pennsylvania German Studies Millersville University.
La Primavera (The Spring) is a smaw an private urbanisit zone in the sooth o ceety. Conteens mony hooses, twa schuils, a little maw next tae a full o deuks channel, a sport club an a channels group connectit tae the biggest loch in Culiacán, whaur onyane can fish an go campin.
Levi-Xastr / Leviticus 17 : 11 - Sorv jiv rogtant asa, heach pasot, sogllem rogot porjechim patkam pois korcheak, vedir vharounk Sorvesporan hukum dila. Rogtant asa to jiv sogllim patkam pois korta. / since the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement on the altar for yourselves, because it is the blood as life that makes atonement
Ralph Sazio (1922-2008, class of 1941), former football player, assistant coach, head coach general manager and team president of the Hamilton Tiger-Cats, inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame in 1998 as a builder.
eBooks and Texts > Canadian Libraries > University of Toronto - Robarts Library >The traditional poetry of the Finns by Domenico Comparetti, translated Isabella M. Anderton with introduction by Andrew Lang, Longmans, Green and Co., 39 Paternoster Row, London and Bombay, 1898
Development were also a key discussion in IGF-RIO, as the theme chosen for this meeting, including the breaking of digital divide, which becomes the theme for the next IGF: Internet for All.
Ta Screeudeyr Arrey ry hoi Edjaghys as Ynsaght Seihill freggyrtagh son edjaghys ayns Nalbin, agh ta Lught-reill Ynnydagh freggyrtagh ry hoi stiurey laa dy laa as argid. Ta paartyn ogheragh ayns edjaghys ny h-Albey ec colughtyn theayagh neu-rheynnagh: ta Lught-reill Qualleeaghtyn ny h-Albey freggyrtagh er son lhiasaghey, credjoonaght, scrutaght as teishtys qualleeaghtyn faagail magh keimyn as ad seyrit ayns mean-scoillyn, colaashtaghyn ynsee sodjey eear-vean-scoillaragh as ynnydyn elley; as ta Learning and Teaching Scotland kiarail coyrle, cooid as lhiasaghey fwirran da'n lught ynsee dy cur lhiasaghey coorse er oaie as dy chroo cultoor noaid, gloyrvian as erbaghtallys. Va ynsagh anneydagh currit ayns leigh ayns Nalbin 'sy vlein 1496. Ta beggan ny smoo na 4% dy scollagyn ny h-Albey, agh ta'n earroo shen gaase ayns ny bleeantyn jerrinagh.
Coniferae: ta fo-hylem ec dagh ooilley lus bearkanagh, as ta'n strughtoor echey colaik. Ta fo-hylem biljyn bearkanagh goll er creck myr fuygh bog.
The visible surface of the Sun, the photosphere, is the layer below which the Sun becomes opaque to visible light. Above the photosphere, sunlight is free to propagate into space and its energy escapes the Sun entirely. Sunlight has a black-body spectrum that is characteristic of about 6,000 kelvins, interspersed with atomic absorption lines from the tenuous layers above the photosphere. The photosphere has a particle density of about 1023/m3 (this is about 1% of the particle density of Earth's atmosphere at sea level). The parts of the Sun above the photosphere are referred to collectively as the solar atmosphere. They can be viewed with telescopes operating across the electromagnetic spectrum, from radio through visible light to gamma rays.
Wolof-English-Wolof DictionaryWolof-English-Wolof Dictionary Pamela Munro and Dieynaba Gaye, Ay Baati Wolof-A Wolof Dictionary, (revised edition). UCLA Occasional Papers in Linguistics, Number 19. Los Angeles: UCLA Department of Linguistics, 1997.
In flowering plants, the female gametes are made of only eight cells, called the embryo sac, inside the ovule. The cell closest to the opening of the embryo sac becomes the egg cell. When pollinated, sperm swims into the embryo sac and fertilizes the egg. The zygote then develops into an embryo inside the ovule.
His case, which appalled Sooth Koreans, haes fueled the debate on caipital punishment in Sooth Korea. Although the daith penalty is still permissible unner law, it haes no been carriet oot syne 1997. It appeared caipital punishment micht be abolished prior tae Yoo's arrest, but support for the daith penalty haes grown syne then.
Plantilla:See also Los Angeles independent station KTLA (channel 5) assumed the broadcast television rights to the Los Angeles Angels (now the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim) in 1964 from competing independent KHJ-TV (channel 9, now KCAL-TV); the team was owned by Gene Autry for much of its tenure as the team's local television broadcaster, Autry had acquired KTLA that year through his media company Golden West Broadcasters. The team's broadcast rights remained with KTLA after Golden West's sale of the station to Tribune Broadcasting in 1983. KTLA lost the then-California Angels's broadcast rights in 1995, with the team moving their game telecasts to KCAL-TV for the 1996 season (that station's owner at the time, The Walt Disney Company, held an ownership interest in the Angels that briefly overlapped with KCAL's contract with the team until the station was sold to Young Broadcasting that year as a result of Disney's purchase of ABC, owners of KABC-TV (channel 7)).
Efter the referendum o 2006, 7 municipalities o Montefeltro wur detached frae the Province tae join the Province o Rimini (Emilia-Romagna) on 15 August 2009. The municipalities are Casteldelci, Maiolo, Novafeltria, Pennabilli, San Leo, Sant'Agata Feltria an Talamello.
The Serpent: a character din the Genesis creation narrative occasionally depicted with legs, and sometimes identified with Satan, though its representations have been both male and female.
Plate tectonics (Afaan Greek tektōn jedhamu irra kan dhufee yoo ta'u hikaan "ijarra" jechu dha) kuni immo yadda geology kessatti sochii lafa lithosphere planeta kenya kessatti argamu jechuu dha. that has been developed to explain the observed evidence for large scale motions of the Earth's lithosphere. Yaddi kuni immo yadda durii kana continental drift walakka 1ffa century 20ffa ba'e fi yadda seafloor spreading kana bara 1960ffa kessatti guddatte kan ofii kessa qabu fi kan irratti hunda'e yoo ta'u, yaddi tectonic plate yadda lachu fayyida alla gochu danda'erra.
A reminder - applications for scholarships for Wikimania 2016 in Esino Lario, Italy, are closing soon! Please get your applications in by January 9th. To apply, visit the page below:
Mugen Motorsports (M-TEC Co., Ltd) (無限) is a Japanese company formed in 1973 bi Hirotoshi Honda, the son o Honda Motor Company foonder Soichiro Honda, an Masao Kimura. Mugen, meanin "Without Limit", or "Unlimited", (hence the commonly placed wird "Pouer" efter, denotin "Unlimited Pouer") is an ingine tuner an pairts manufacturer closely associatit wi the Honda Motor Company. Despite the family connections, housomeivver, Mugen is no, an haes niver been, awned bi Honda. Things wur complicated for some time as Mugen wis awned an run bi Hirotoshi Honda, who haes been the major shareholder in Honda since his father's daith in 1991.
Somọ́, v.t. to tie together, to unite, to join, to unite with, to suspend, to fasten upon, to tie to. Wọ́n so ó mọ́ igi. (They tied him to the tree)
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 98,879 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 200.00 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 1980.
Woja dowisyans leel en 2009, nyns esa parti udnik ow rowlya an konsel. Kabynet an konsel yw gwres a gesgovernans a withadoregyon hag anserhegyon.
WikiWikiWeb was the first wiki. Ward Cunningham started developing WikiWikiWeb in 1994, and installed it on the Internet domain c2.com on 25 Maachị 1995. It was named by Cunningham, who remembered a Honolulu International Airport counter employee telling him to take the "Wiki Wiki" shuttle bus that runs between the airport's terminals. According to Cunningham, "I chose wiki-wiki as an alliterative substitute for 'quick' and thereby avoided naming this stuff quick-web."
Bible ant veg veglea vixoi acher pustokam meotai. Kaideacher pustokam – Levi-Xastr ani Dusri Somurt, Itihas acher pustokam – Ezra ani Dhormdutancho Itihas, Kovita acher pustokam – Stotram and Upodexok, Bhovixiovanni – Izaias ani Juanvak Prokasovnni(Revelation), Peleamni boroil'lim jinnye kotha (Biography) – Matev ani Juanv ani toxim Potram ‘Epistles’(formal letters) Titak Pauluchem Potr ani Hebrevank Potr.
There are three tiers of awards: a Global Award is presented to international brands that have a presence in ten or more countries, on three or more continents, limited to the top 100 global brands in any particular year; a Regional Award is presented to brands who are top in several countries in a particular geographic region; and a National Award which is presented to the very top brands in participating countries at the awards. Brands who are global winners are not awarded again on a national level.
Yuan Shao challenged Cao Cao for control over the emperor. Yuan's power was greatly diminished after Cao defeated him at the Battle of Guandu in 200 AD. After Yuan died, Cao killed Yuan Shao's son Yuan Tan (173–205 AD), who had fought with his brothers over the family inheritance. His brothers Yuan Shang and Yuan Xi were killed in 207 AD by Gongsun Kang (d. 221 AD), who sent their heads to Cao Cao.
The Babur-nama. Memoirs of Babur, Prince and Emperor Translated, Edited and annotated by Wheeler M. Thackston (New York) 2002 (Baburs selvbiografi).
Epidemics raged during the same period of time. Polio spread around the country in 1916 and, at Columbia, resulted in the deaths of one teacher and several children. In 1918, the global influenza epidemic closed all of the schools in the District for three weeks and one teacher died.
Susie Q is s easchde Liadl gwen, wos untam neia Bandnam afgnumma hom. S easchde Oibum Creedence Clearwater Revival, is 1968 afn Moakt kumma. De Scheim isa voia Eafoig gwen, se is reglmasse in de Radiosendunga gloffa und es hod a reglrechde CCR-Manie gem.
Page was born March 26, 1973, in East Lansing, Michigan. Page does not follow any formal religion. His father, Carl Victor Page, Sr., earned a PhD in computer science from the University of Michigan in 1965, when the field was being established, and BBC reporter Will Smale has described him as a "pioneer in computer science and artificial intelligence". He was a computer science professor at Michigan State University and Page's mother, Gloria, was an instructor in computer programming at Lyman Briggs College and at Michigan State University.
The song was also featured prominently in the 1997 film Grosse Pointe Blank. John Cusack had initially requested an updated version of the song, which led to the band recording a new, slower arrangement that featured saxophones, strings and other instruments. This version of the song was dubbed "Blister 2000." However, Cusack eventually decided he wanted to include the original version of the song as well. Because the original master tapes of the band's debut album had long been disposed of, they decided to record a new version of the original 1983 arrangement. Curiously, neither of these rerecorded versions appears in the actual film, although a new music video was created for the new recording of the 1983 arrangement. It features Gordon Gano as a deranged assassin trying to kill Socks the cat in puppet form, interspersed with clips from the film.
Aadharshila ek 1982 mein bana Hindi film hain. Yea film India mein Ashok Ahuja ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Anita Kanwar, Annu Kapoor, Pankaj Kapur, Satish Kaushik acting kiye the.
The Politics of A-political Linguistics: Linguists and Linguicide, erschienen in Rights to Language: equity, power, and education, editiert von Robert Phillipson, 2000.
The Naval Component of the F-FDTL was established in December 2001 when Portugal transferred two small Albatroz class patrol boats from the Portuguese Navy. Its establishment was not supported by the King's College study team, the UN or East Timor's other donor countries on the grounds that East Timor could not afford to operate a naval force. The role of the Naval Component is to conduct fishery and border protection patrols and ensure that the maritime line of communication to the Oecussi enclave remains open. As at June 2010 the Naval Component is equipped with four patrol boats. Under the Force 2020 plan the Naval Component may eventually be expanded to a light patrol force equipped with corvette-sized ships and landing craft.
Pakistan's main goal was to force the Indian infantry into retreat before their armored support and supply lines could catch up. The Pakistani Army's aim also was to capture much of the territory it had lost earlier in the fighting. The Indian infantry's aim was to capture and hold the town of Burki until reinforcements, including armor and supplies, could arrive.
For the 1989 NBA Finals, CBS completely revamped the opening montage. The computer-generated imagery (once again set in and around a virtual arena) was made to look more realistic (live-action footage was incorporated in the backdrops). Also, the familiar theme music was rearranged to sound more intricate and to have a more emotional impact, along the lines of the network's later World Series coverage. Between the 1989 NBA Finals and the 1990 NBA Finals' intros, the theme music was slightly revised; the 1989 Finals intro incorporated more of a guitar riff, while the 1990 Finals intro featured a little more usage of trumpets.
Thare are aicht federal destricts o Roushie, which function as an addeetional admeenistrative layer atween ither subdiveesions an the Roushie Federation as a whole state. But these hae naething tae dae wi the territory surroondin a caipital ceety. Housomeivver, thare are twa ceeties o federal significance an aw, established bi the Constitution — Moscow an Saunt Petersburg. Each ceety is treatit as separate subject o federation, an haes its awn legislative bouk. Such status is based on certain special functions which these twa ceeties hae, includin location o federal govrenment an federal judicial institutions.
The forum runs various programmes including brand and market research, a best-practice standards development programme, and other student education programmes. It also organises various conference, workshops and seminars. The forum's industry recognition programme is the World Branding Awards, which it organises annually.
defines a variable named array (or assigns a new value to an existing variable with the name array) which is an array consisting of the values 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9. That is, the array starts at 1 (the init value), increments with each step from the previous value by 2 (the increment value), and stops once it reaches (or to avoid exceeding) 9 (the terminator value).
Chief Bungeni and his people, while in Mozambique, led a rebellious campaign against Nguni invaders, who not only oppressed the Tsonga people but also enslave Tsonga woman and children. Chief Bungeni tried to defend his people but was easily defeated by Soshangane and his soldiers. To avoid death and execution by Soshangane, Chief Bungeni and his followers fled and sought refuge at a place known today as Bungeni, under the protection and authority of chief Njhakanjhaka and was a subject of Hosi Njhakanhjaka. Chief Bungeni was made a senior headman by chief Njhakanjhaka. Another waves of Tsonga migration into Bungeni happen again between 1859-1863 during the civil war between Mzila and Mawewe, the two brother were fighting for a Kingship after the death of their father Soshangane. The last wave of Tsonga migration into Bungeni happened between 1890-1895 during the Portuguese and Nghunghunyane wars.
Fegley, H. W. (1986). Farming always Farming: A photographic essay of rural Pennsylvania German land and life, Kutztown Publishing Company: Kutzeschtettel, Pennsilfaani, p. 116.
The First Rains of Spring ek 2011 mein bana N/A film hain. Yea film Kazakhstan, Japan mein Yerlan Nurmukhambetov, Shinju Sano ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein N/A acting kiye the.
When the petition contains a statement about facts or circumstances that are supposititious or at least, modified if they really exist, the resulting rescript is said to be vitiated by obreption, which consists in a positive allegation of what is false.
Botrivier ke toropo senyane wa Theewaterskloof Mmusogae, Mmasepala Setereke tša Overberg go feta Kapa Bodikela porofence ka moka Afrika Borwa.
A very popular destination is Mendenhall Glacier. A bridge connects Douglas Island with the rest of Juneau, and there are about five places where roads end. Float planes and helicopters offer glacier tours in summer. Dog sled rides are often given to tourists landing on the glaciers or ice caps. Other companies offer boat rides. One of the signature places in Juneau is The Mount Roberts Tramway, an aerial tramway stretching from a station on the cruise ship docks to a point on the southwestern ridge of Mount Roberts.
Antibiotics are often given intravenously to help kill remaining bacteria and thus reduce the incidence of infectious complication in the abdomen or wound.
Kertz-Welzel, Alexandra. "Didaktik of Music: A German Concept and its Comparison to American Music Pedagogy." International Journal of Music Education (Practice) 22 No. 3 (2004): 277-286.
In 1975, he started to record music under the alias The Stars. Two years later, he formed the Butler, Pennsylvania based rock band The Eyes. The band's album, New Gods: Aardvark Through Zymurgy was released in 1977 and has been called "the holy grail of psychedelic collectibles." In 1978, The Eyes (with two personnel changes) evolved into The Todd Clark Group, who released their "We're Not Safe!" album in 1979.
The Chagos Conservation Trust - A non-political charity whose aims are to promote conservation, scientific and historical research, and to advance education concerning the archipelago.
VisualEditor is coming to the Picard Wikipedia on December 2nd. VisualEditor is software in development to allow people to edit pages in MediaWiki without needing to learn wikitext syntax (like typing [[ and ]] to link to another page). It is already available and in use on some Wikipedia projects. Please see mw:Help:VisualEditor/FAQ for more information.
The IBM Personal Computer, commonly kent as the IBM PC, is the oreeginal version an progenitor o the IBM PC compatible haurdware platform. It is IBM model nummer 5150, an wis introduced on August 12, 1981. It wis creatit bi a team o ingineers an designers unner the direction o Don Estridge o the IBM Entry Systems Division in Boca Raton, Florida.
Shirley Township covers an area of 42.75 square miles (110.7 km2) and contains no incorporated settlements. According to the USGS, it contains two cemeteries: Cedar Hill and Pleasant View.
Editors on en:wp have created a great page with all the necessary information for editors and there is also an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.
Hubert Alexander Ingraham (born 1947) is the Prime Minister of the Bahamas. He first served as Prime Minister from August 1992 until May 2002 and became Prime Minister again in 2007. He is a member of the Free National Movement Party (FNM).
"A Killing: Closing Hours of the Bill Passing Session of the Legislature: Woman Suffrage and Anti-Pool Room Bills Go Down to Death Together," The Minneapolis Tribune, April 18, 1893.
Heyne, Moritz. Harrison, James A. Sharp, Robert. Beowulf: An Anglo-Saxon Poem, and The Fight at Finnsburg: a Fragment Boston, Massachusetts: Ginn & Company, 1895.
While in Lebanon Haddad realized that he was a nominal Christian who "did not really live according to what he knew were the norms of his faith." He then decided that whenever the chance came he would try his best to live according to his idea of Christian standards for one year. He tried to do so while he was a student at Columbia University. During that time, one of his American Christian friends converted to Islam. Haddad recalls that this event had a significant impact on him and made him feel envious: “Here was an American embracing the religion of my people - the Arabs - and the religion I felt attached to.” During a year he spent in Paris on a scholarship, Haddad bought a complete set of tapes of the recitation of the Quran. Upon returning to New York, he heard the tapes and paid special attention to the passages that concerned Christians. He recalls that he felt the words of the Quran were those of God but also "squirmed" at some verses that threatened Christians. He read many other books about Islam and eventually became dissatisfied with the Christian way of worship. In 1991, he went to a Muslim student group at Columbia University and pronounced the Shahada, thereby formally converting to the Hanafi Sunni branch of Islam.
Christine Marie "Chris" Evert (born 21 December 1954) is a umwhile Warld No. 1 profeesional tennis player frae the Unitit States. She wan 18 Grand Slam singles championships, includin a record seiven championships at the French Open an a record sax championships at the U.S. Open. She wis the year-endin Warld No. 1 singles player in 1974, 1975, 1976, 1977, 1978, 1980, an 1981.
AS Rangers FC formerly known as Dragon Super Rangers FC, is Burundian Football Club based in Nyakabiga, Bujumbura. Its nickname Les Lions. The club plays in the fourth division of the Bujumbura Football Association.
A few years later, the prince allee'd wi the emir o Sadjid, Yusuf, against Eastren Syunik, which thay invadit thegither. Sembat wis sheltered in the fortress o Erendchak (the day Alindja, northeast o Nakhchivan) an Yusuf remained awner o Eastren Syunik. Sembat requestit refuge frae his brither-in-law Khatchik-Gagik, which wis grantit. In the same year (909), the prince o Wastren Syunik, Grigor Sufan II, submittit ae the emir Yusuf in Dvin. Anerlie Byzantine muivements an the athdrawal o the Sadjids permittit him tae recover the throne some time later. Sembat, wi his three brithers Sahak, Babgen, an Vasak, govrened again. An aw in Wastren Syunik, Sahak, Ashot an Vasak, brithers o Grigor-Sufan II, wur govrenin the kintra. Efter them the dynasty o Wastren Syunik became extinct an the territory wis subsumit bi the Muslims.
X. "to contain the most important and significant natural habitats for in-site conservation of biological diversity, including those containing threatened species of outstanding universal value from the point of view of science or conservation."
Slim, H. Colin. 2006. "Stravinsky's Four Star-Spangled Banners and His 1941 Christmas Card". The Musical Quarterly 89, nos. 2 and 3 ([northern] Summer–Fall): 321–447.
During cosmic nucleogenesis of the elements, large amounts of neon are built up from the alpha-capture fusion process in stars. Although neon is a very common element in the universe and solar system (it is fifth in cosmic abundance after hydrogen, helium, oxygen and carbon), it is very rare on Earth. It composes about 18.2 ppm of air by volume (this is about the same as the molecular or mole fraction), and a smaller fraction in the crust. The reason for neon's relative scarcity on Earth and the inner (terrestrial) planets, is that neon forms no compounds to fix it to solids, and is highly volatile, therefore escaping from the planetesimals under the warmth of the newly-ignited Sun in the early Solar System. Even the atmosphere of Jupiter is somewhat depleted of neon, presumably for this reason.
On the morning of 9 April 2011 અણ્ણા હઝારે ended his 98-hour hunger strike by first offering lemon juice to some of his supporters who had gone on a hunger strike in his support. The social activist then broke his fast by consuming some lemon juice. He addressed the people and set a deadline of 15 August 2011 to pass the Lokpal Bill in the Indian Parliament.
In the early part of the 20th century most of the remaining farms in Maplewood and South Orange were sold and subdivided, leading to the present suburban character of the towns. The increase in population placed enormous pressure on the schools. In 1900, the total District school population was 792; by 1927, it had risen to 4,960, an increase of 526%.
Book of Dragons ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Steve Hickner ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jay Baruchel, Craig Ferguson, America Ferrera, Christopher Mintz-Plasse acting kiye the.
After Wu's reign, Han forces continued to prevail against the Xiongnu. The Xiongnu leader Huhanye Chanyu (呼韓邪) (r. 58–31 BC) finally submitted to Han as a tributary vassal in 51 BC. His rival claimant to the throne, Zhizhi Chanyu (r. 56–36 BC), was killed by Chen Tang and Gan Yanshou (甘延壽/甘延寿) at the Battle of Zhizhi, in modern Taraz, Kazakhstan.
1955 - Suva Town Hall me ek Qawali Competition bhais, jiske M. T. Ali, Master of Ceremonies rahaa aur jisme Commissioner for the Government of India tropy baatis.
The first ever AFL-NFL World Championship Game was played on January 15, 1967. Because CBS held the rights to nationally televise NFL games and NBC had the rights to broadcast AFL games, it was decided by the newly merged league to have both of them cover that first game. Ray Scott, Jack Whitaker, Frank Gifford and Pat Summerall called the game for CBS. 39.9 million viewers would watch Bart Starr's MVP performance. NBC did have some problems. The network did not return in time from a halftime commercial break for the start of the second half; therefore, the first kickoff was stopped by the game's officials and was redone once NBC was back on the air. NBC was also forced to broadcast the game over CBS' feed and cameras (CBS received prerogative to use its feed and camera angles since the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum was home to the NFL's Rams). In other words, NBC's crew had little to no control over how the game was shot. The next three AFL-NFL World Championship Games, later renamed the Super Bowl, were then divided by the two networks: CBS televised Super Bowls II and IV while NBC covered III.
Marble, Allan Everett. Surgeons, Smallpox, and the Poor: A History of Medicine and Social Conditions in Nova Scotia, 1749-1799. McGill-Queen's U. Pr., 1993. 356 pp.
Before the adoption of time zones, people used local solar time (originally apparent solar time, as with a sundial; and, later, mean solar time). Mean solar time is the average over a year of apparent solar time. Its difference from apparent solar time is the equation of time.
Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions project (the project is discontinued, but the texts, the translations and the glossaries remain accessible on the Internet Archive through the options "Corpus Catalogue" and "Browse Lexicon")
“We are deeply saddened and deeply touched by Nasrat Parsa’s death. Singers are the moral property of a society.” Gholam Mohamed Yosufzai (Acting Deputy Minister of Information of Afghanistan in Agence France-Presse, May 10 2005)
The small fruits of Ilex, although often referred to as berries, are technically drupes. They range in color from red to brown to black, and rarely green or yellow. The "bones" contain up to ten seeds each. Some species produce fruits parthenogenetically, such as the cultivar 'Nellie R. Stevens'. The fruits ripen in winter and thus provide winter colour contrast between the bright red of the fruits and the glossy green evergreen leaves. Hence the cut branches, especially of I. aquifolium, are widely used in Christmas decoration. The fruits are generally slightly toxic to humans, and can cause vomiting and diarrhea when ingested. However, they are an important food source for birds and other animals, which help disperse the seeds. Unfortunately this can have negative impacts as well. Along the west coast of North America, from California to British Columbia, English Holly (Ilex aquifolium), which is grown commercially, is quickly spreading into native forest habitat, where it thrives in shade and crowds out native species. It has been placed on the Washington State Noxious Weed Control Board's monitor list, and is a Class C invasive plant in Portland.
Pha dam pa sangs rgyas. 1978/9. The Tradition of Pha Dampa Sangyas: A Treasured Collection of his Teachings Transmitted by T[h]ug[s] sras Kun dga’, ed. Barbara Nimri Aziz, 5 vols. Timphu, Bhutan: Kunsang Tobgey.
Ois The Blue Velvets homs 1959 ogfangt, da John Fogerty, sei Bruada Tom und sei Schuifreind Doug Clifford, z El Cerrito, z Kalifoanien. No finf Monad is no da Stu Cook dazua gschdessn. Se hom no af Schuivoanstoidunga und Festln gschbuid und vo 1964 bis 1967 a oi Schoiblattn afgnumma.
Hanekamp 1749b H1674 S1630a S1630b S1630b S1630b S1665a S1674a S1674b S1674b S1674b S1699 S1749a S1749a S1749a S1749a S1749a S1749a S1749a S1749a S1749b S1749b S1749b S1749b S1749c S1749c S1812b S1812c S1812c S1829e S1829e S182 9d S1840a S1860a S1860d S1860d
CBS did not broadcast any NFL games during the seasons from 1994 to 1997, but won AFC rights, taking over from NBC, in the 1998 season. On December 18, 1993, CBS (which had been home to NFL games for 38 years) lost their rights to the then fledging Fox Network. Fox offered a then-record US$1.58 billion to the NFL over four years for the rights, significantly more than the $290 million per year CBS was willing to pay. The Fox Broadcasting Company was only seven years old and had no sports division, but it began building its own coverage by hiring many former CBS personalities such as Pat Summerall, John Madden, James Brown, Terry Bradshaw, Dick Stockton, and Matt Millen.
(Inggris) Gundry, Robert H. Matthew a Commentary on his Literary and Theological Art. Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1982.
Sepang is a toun an destrict locatit in the soothren part o the state o Selangor in Malaysie. Umwhilie a sma toun, Sepang grew tae several recent developments. Sepang destrict is perhaps best kent for hostin the Sepang Internaitional Circuit an as the site o the Kuala Lumpur Internaitional Airport, which serves Kuala Lumpur.
McAllister, D.E., 1990. A working list of fishes of the world. Copies available from D.E. McAllister, Canadian Museum of Nature, P.O. Box 3443, Ottawa, Ontàrio K1P 6P4, Canadà. 2661 p. plus 1270 p. Index
The charts below show the way in which the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) represents Thai and Lao pronunciations in Wikipedia articles.
O Carteiro ek 2011 mein bana Portuguese film hain. Yea film Brazil mein Reginaldo Faria ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Cande Faria, Ana Carolina Machado, Dany Stenzel, Felipe De Paula acting kiye the.
Kamela - Kansas City - Keasey - Keizer - Keno - Kent - Kerby - Kernville - Kimberly - King City - Kings Valley - Kinton - Klamath Agency - Klamath Falls - Knappa
This form of leadership normally exists where there are various cultures in the society. This leadership has also industrialized as a way to recognize front runners who work in the contemporary globalized market.Organizations, particularly international ones require leaders who can effectively adjust their leadership to work in different environs.
A Chinese proverb for loving couples uses the mandarin duck as a metaphor: "Two mandarin ducks playing in water" (simplified Chinese: 鸳鸯戏水; traditional Chinese: 鴛鴦戲水; pinyin: yuān yāng xì shuǐ). A mandarin duck symbol is also used in Chinese weddings because in traditional Chinese lore, they symbolize wedded bliss and fidelity. Because the male and female plumages of the mandarin duck are so unalike, yuan-yang is frequently used colloquially in Cantonese to mean an "odd couple" or "unlikely pair" – a mixture of two different types of same category. For example, the drink yuanyang and yuan-yang fried rice.
Most of the population (as of 2000) speaks French (1,979 or 93.0%) as their first language, Portuguese is the second most common (72 or 3.4%) and German is the third (28 or 1.3%). There are 17 people who speak Italian.
The host webpage keeps video and audio records from main sessions and some parallel events such as inama nyunguranabitekerezo, best practices and open Urubugas, as well as the tool for translation into Arabic.
Farrington, D. P. (1987b) Implications of biological findings for criminological research. In Mednick, S.A., Moffitt, T.E. and Stack, S.A. (Eds.) The Causes of Crime: New Biological Approaches. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (pp. 42-64).
Ndi nna nna Bustill nwere onwe ha na-ebe 1700s, mgbe when her great-grandfather Cyrus Bustill was freed after several years of service to a new owner in Burlington, New Jersey. He moved into Philadelphia where he built a business as a baker. Cyrus Bustill became one of the founders in Philadelphia of the Free African Society in 1787. Other family had genealogical records going back to the early days of the Pennsylvania colony.
As many of you are aware, we are now two months away from the Fundraiser for the Wikimedia Foundation, 2010. We have lofty goals, and we can meet them and exceed them!
Wright took up a coaching role at Guildford City following his retirement in 1949, before holding similar positions at Walsall and Luton Town. He was named as head coach at Everton in 1956, and later coached the India youth team between 1961 and 1963 in preparation for the 1963 AFC Youth Championship. In 1963, he inherited Syed Abdul Rahim's India national team, where Wright led the side to the runners-up spot in the 1964 Asian Cup, which remains the most notable triumph in professional football for India.
Chisana (An established principle or proposition; a condensed proposition of important practical truth; an axiom of practical wisdom; an adage; a proverb; an aphorism) apa kureva tsumo kana zviga.
The Duke pursues the group onto the bridge, setting off mines as he tries to catch up. With Brain navigating through the minefield, Snake manages to avoid most of the explosives, but the cab hits a mine and is blown in half, killing Cabbie. As the group flees on foot, Brain is killed when he steps on another mine. Maggie refuses to leave him, and stands in the middle of the road, shooting at the Duke's car until he runs her down, killing her. Snake and the President reach the perimeter wall and the guards raise the President on a rope. The Duke opens fire on the wall, killing the guards and forcing Snake to dive for cover, but the President shoots the Duke dead. Snake is lifted to safety, and the micro-explosives in his neck are neutralized.
Being Flynn ek 2012 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Paul Weitz ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Robert De Niro, Paul Dano, Julianne Moore, Olivia Thirlby acting kiye the.
Uling kareng kayang tagumpe king sprinting, meyaus yang "Lightning Bolt", ampong galal kayabe ya ing IAAF World Athlete of the Year, Track & Field Athlete of the Year, ampong Laureus Sportsman of the Year (makatadwa).
Gwydh krabbys (unnplek gwydhen krabbys, Lat. Malus sylvestris), po aval krabbys, yw ehen a wydhen vyhan yn teylu Rosaceae (genas Malus). Aval krabbys henwys yw an frooth gwydh krabbys.
III. "to bear a unique or at least exceptional testimony to a cultural tradition or to a civilization which is living or which has disappeared";
Bogyeongsa is a major Buddhist temple nestled in a steep green valley at the fuit o Munt Naeyeon (710 m) in Songna-myeon, a aurie in the extreme northren pairt o Pohang. Yeonsan Watterfaw is locatit nearbi in the same muntain valley. Thare are hikin trails leadin frae the temple up intae the muntains. Bogyeongsa haes a nummer o muntain hermitages in the vicinity an aw.
The chain started out as an on-campus newspaper for California State University, Chico called The Wildcat, but after a dispute with the administration, the newspaper moved off campus to become an independent publication.
Philip L. Otterness: The unattained Canaan : the 1709 Palatine migration and the formation of German society in colonial America. Iowa City 1996. (Dissertation). google
Todd Whitelaw, "Feasts of clay? Ceramics and feasting at Early Minoan Myrtos: Fournou Korifi" in Y. Galanakis, T. Wilkinson, J. Bennet, edd., AΘYMATA. Criticalessays on the archaeology of the Eastern Mediterranean in honour of E. Susan Sherratt (Oxoniae: Archaeopress, 2014) pp. 247-w59
Ta gleashaght stoo çheet er gleashaght stoo loaghtagh. Rere fishig, t'ee ry-akin ayns corys çhiass-niartal foshlit. T’ee goll er ronsaghey myr gleashaght harrish creeagh ennagh, er ny hoilshaghey rere eaghtyr giarrey tessen as reat gleashaght stoo. Ayns jeshaghteyrys as bea-oaylleeaght, t’ad cur tastey da gleashaght heeltagh ayns pioban dy cadjin. Ta sampleyryn goaill stiagh kiarkley folley, ny ymmyrkey ushtey ayns cuishlinyn sylem as phloem.
Aankh Michouli ek 1942 mein bana Hindi film hain. Yea film India mein R.S. Choudhury ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Nalini Jaywant acting kiye the.
About using of enzymatic preparations in veterinary medicine. // Int. Sci. Conf. "Enzyme preparates, probiothics, biological means in ensiling". Kaunas, 1991
In 2005, Westwood One carried an alternate Spanish-language feed featuring Clemson Smith-Muniz as play-by-play host and David Crommett as commentator. Those broadcasts have moved to United Stations Radio Networks.
Tsghuk (Armenie: Ծղուկ, Romanisit as Tsqhuk an aw; umwhile, Borisovka an Murkuz) is a veelage an rural commonty (municipality) in the Syunik Province o Armenie. The Naitional Statistical Service o the Republic o Armenie (ARMSTAT) reportit its population as 451 in 2010, up frae 427 at the 2001 census.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 34,538 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 167.25 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 7505.
The Chief Election Commissioner of India (CEC), V. S. Sampath announced the polling schedule on 5 March. Voting is to be held in nine phases from 7 April to 12 May, while the results of the election will be announced on 16 May. Simultaneous elections will be held for the Vidhan Sabhas of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Sikkim.
Michel Joseph Martelly (ojoibi 12 February 1961), bakanna bi oruko ori itage re "Sweet Micky", ni Aare orile-ede Haiti lowolowo leyin to bori ninu idiboyan aare 2011. Ko to di oloselu, Martelly je olorin ati onisowo.
Colin Macfarquhar (1745? - 2 Aprile , 1793) wis a Scots prenter. He is weel-kent for co-foondin the Encyclopædia Britannica thegither wi Andrew Bell.
Zeno o Elea (Greek: Ζήνων ὁ Ἐλεάτης; c. 490 – c. 430 BC) wis a pre-Socratic Greek filosofer o Magna Graecia an a member o the Eleatic Schuil foondit bi Parmenides. Aristotle cried him the inventor o the dialectic. He is best kent for his paradoxes, which Bertrand Russell haes describit as "immeisurably subtle an profoond".
Heraldry is the profession, study, or airt o creatin, grantin, an blazonin airms an rulin on quaistens o rank or protocol, as exercised bi an officer o airms.
If you don't feel confident to create this article in Nahuatl, you may translate it totally or partially from another Wikipedia. You can find on a box on the left some links to this concept in several other languages.
David R. Lide (ed.), Norman E. Holden in CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 85th Edition, online version. CRC Press. Boca Raton, Florida (2005). Section 11, Table of the Isotopes.
From 1932 to 1940, Johnson openly sympathized with the extreme populist movements of Huey Long, Governor of Louisiana, and Father Charles Coughlin. As a correspondent for Coughlin's newspaper Social Justice, he made several trips to Germany, sympathetically covering the huge Nazi rally at Nuremberg and the German invasion of Poland in 1939. The American correspondent William Shirer who also covered the German invasion of Poland, noted his enthusiasm for the Germans and called him "The American fascist." However, there is no other evidence that he was a fascist or member of the Nazi Party. He actively helped refugees from Germany, including Walter Gropius and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, to emigrate and become established in the United States. He later described his activities in Germany as "stupid." He was embarrassed, many years after the war, when Hitler's architect, Albert Speer, who admired Johnson's work, sent a copy of his own book as a gift to Johnson. The FBI investigated him for his past contacts with the German government but he was not found to be a threat and he served honorably in the military. Regarding this period in his life, he later said, "I have no excuse (for) such unbelievable stupidity... I don't know how you expiate guilt." In 1956, donated his design for a building of worship to what is now one of the country's oldest Jewish congregations, Congregation Kneses Tifereth Israel in Port Chester, New York. According to one source "all critics agree that his design of the Port Chester Synagogue can be considered as his attempt to ask for forgiveness" for his admitted "stupidity". The building, which stands today, is a "crisp juxtaposition of geometric forms"
The Origins of the French Revolution, The French Revolution: The Moderate Stage, 1789–1792 and The French Revolution: The Radical Stage, 1792–1794, three essays from The History Guide: Lectures on Modern European Intellectual History.
The Metropolitan Ceety o Milan (Italian: Città Metropolitana di Milano) is a metropolitan ceety in the Lombardy region, Italy. Its caipital is the ceety o Milan. It replacit the Province o Milan an includes the ceety o Milan an ither 133 municipalities (comuni). It wis first creatit bi the reform o local authorities (Law 142/1990) an then established bi the Law 56/2014. It haes been operative since 1 Januar 2015.
It is known that there was a settlement or village of Indians on the farms now owned by..., located northwest of Churchtown...Another settlement or village was under the brow of Maxwell's Hill, between Churchtown and Morgantown, which sloped down to the Conestoga. The place afterwards became part of the farm of David Jenkins... The farm is now owned by... whether the Indians emigrated elsewhere or died off gradually no one seems to have noted (Mast & Simpson, 1942 : 5).
Göran Melander The two refugee definitions - Protection of refugees in Europe as seen in 1987, Lund: Raoul Wallenberg Institute, University of Lund, 1987
Shortly after his conversion, Haddad met Shaykh Hisham Kabbani of Tripoli who introduced him to the ways of the Naqshbandi Spiritual Order (tariqa). In the month of Ramadan following his conversion, Haddad traveled to London where he met Kabbani's teacher and father-in-law, Shaykh Muhammad Nazim al-Haqqani of Cyprus, and accepted him as his spiritual guide of the Naqshbandi Spiritual Order.
Now Cousteau's figure is admired, beloved worldwide through the many who love the sea, and is regarded to with a sort of devotion, as symbolic of adventure, nature and exploration.
1911. Philosophie als strenge Wissenschaft. [1965, included in "Phenomenology and the Crisis of Philosophy: Philosophy as Rigorous Science and Philosophy and the Crisis of European Man"]
Gary Richard Williams (January 24, 1942 – March 16, 2008) was an American professional wrestling manager, as well as a professional wrestler in his early career, best known by his ring name Gary Hart. Hart was one of the pivotal driving forces behind what is considered to be World Class Championship Wrestling's "golden years" in the early 1980s.
The Damascus Chronicle of the Crusaders, extracted and translated from the Chronicle of Ibn al-Qalanisi. Uitgegeven en in het Engels vertaald door H.A.R. Gibb. London, 1932.
For the Conference Championship games and the Super Bowl, most affiliate radio stations of the participating teams' networks must accept the feed from Westwood One. Only the flagship stations (in both English and other languages) can transmit the team's local radio broadcast, although the local broadcasts are also available on Sirius Satellite Radio and NFL Audio Pass. An exception is made for the Green Bay Packers because they technically have flagships in two separate cities, WTAQ-FM/AM and WIXX (FM) in Green Bay and WTMJ in Milwaukee; the latter station has produced Packers radio broadcasts for many years. If the local Dial Global affiliate is not the same as the corresponding affiliate of the team, the Dial Global station retains broadcast rights and the team's station must switch to alternate programming (for example, KSPN in Los Angeles aired an alternate feed of ESPN Radio on January 20, 2008 when the San Diego Chargers played in the AFC Championship Game, as exclusive rights belonged to KLAC, the Chargers' L.A. flagship. The same situation occurred in 2011 with WAPL as part of the Packers example above; although that station is licensed to Appleton south of Green Bay, the station transmits from the same site as WIXX, but as it is an 'out-of-market' station according to NFL rules, carried the Westwood One call rather than the Packers home call during the NFC Championship Game and Super Bowl XLI).
The federal court seestem divides each state principal, the District of Columbia, an Puerto Rico, intae ane or mair federal judicial destricts. A Unitit States destrict court and a bankruptcy court are locatit in each. There are also regional federal judicial circuits, each consistin o a group o states (except for the District of Columbia Circuit, which consists anerly o the federal destrict, an the Federal Circuit, whose jurisdiction is based on specific subject matter insteid o geografie); Puerto Rico an the Unitit States territorial courts are assigned tae circuits an aw. Each circuit haes a Unitit States court o appeals.
Strontium plays an important role in marine aquatic life, especially hard corals, which use strontium to build their exoskeletons. It and barium have some uses in medicine, for example "barium meals" in radiographic imaging, whilst strontium compounds are employed in some toothpastes. Excessive amounts of strontium-90 are toxic due to its radioactivity and strontium-90 mimics calcium and then can kill.
She lus sheer-vio lussagh t'ayn, as ny duillagyn eck gyn gish as ayns cummey roseag. Ta ny duillagyn hene linnagh, mysh 2-22cm er lhiurid, 1cm er lheead as roauyr. Ta oirr rea ny faggys-rea oc, as tree dys queig cuishlinyn ry-akin. Ta blaaghyn geayney beggey eck, as ad soit gyn cass ayns crouw-vlaaghey wheesh as 10cm er lhiurid er gass 3-20 er yrjid.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 16,370 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 89.17 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 7410.
Within the various uises o the wird today, "naitur" eften refers tae geology an wildlife. Naitur can refer tae the general realm o leevin plants an ainimals, an in some cases tae the processes associatit wi inanimate objects–the way that pairteecular teeps o things exeest an chynge o thair awn accord, such as the wather an geology o the Yird. It is eften taken tae mean the "naitural environs" or wilderness–wild ainimals, rocks, forest, an in general thae things that hae nae been substantially altered bi human intervention, or which perseest despite human intervention. For example, manufacturt objects an human interaction generally are nae conseedert pairt o naitur, unless qualified as, for example, "human naitur" or "the whole o naitur". This mair tradeetional concept o naitural things which can still be foond the day implies a distinction atween the naitural an the airtifeecial, wi the airtifeecial bein unnerstuid as that which haes been brocht intae bein bi a human consciousness or a human mynd. Dependin on the pairteecular context, the term "naitural" micht an aa be distinguished frae the unnaitural or the supernaitural.
La Cocha Depairtment is a depairtment in Tucumán Province, Argentinae. It haes a population o 17,683 (2001) an a aurie o 917 km². The seat o the depairtment is in La Cocha.
Kudunhura (cut down small tree). Mangwana tinotanga kudunhura gombo: tomorrow we start to clear the undergrowth off the land we wish to cultivate.
Tolkien, J.R.R. Beowulf, the Monsters and the Critics. (Sir Israel Gollancz Memorial Lecture, British Academy, 1936). First ed. London: Humphrey Milford, 1937.
Ta'n Çheer Vascagh (Bascish: Euskal Herria), ny Çheer ny Bascee, ny thalloo shendeeagh ta soit ayns ny Pyreanagh Sheear as ee goll harrish y joarey eddyr y Rank as y Spaainey, as ta sheeyney heese coose Baie ny Biscaayn. T'ee freggyrt liorish çheer ny Bascee as nyn jengey oc, y Vascish.
Diagnosis is based on history and physical examination backed by an elevation of neutrophilic white cells, and other infection markers on blood testing and imaging.
Due to an unabated influx of people from all over India to Goa, the native Goan people have begun to fear for their identity and culture. There are growing calls for the government of India to grant Goa Special Status so that the local government can regulate in-migration and stop the sale of land to non-Goans.
The seicont ceety o a kintra is the ceety which is seicont, usually efter the caipital ceety, in geographical size, population, cultural significance, economic or political importance. Which o these criteria ar uised is subject tae debate an varies between kintras an there is never any offeecial recognition o such status.
Kollmar-Paulenz, Karénina. 1998. “Ma gcig lab sgron ma – The Life of a Tibetan Woman Mystic Between Adaption and Rebellion.” Tibet Journal 23 (2), 11-32.
John McManamon/Marco D'Agostino/Stefano Medas: Excavation and Recording of the Medieval Hulls at San Marco in Boccalama (Venice). I: The INA Quarterly. The Publication of the Institute of Nautical Archaeology. Bd. 30, 2003, S. 22–28 (som PDF Nr.1, Jahrgang 30, 3,5 MB).
The ceety o Geneva dominates the economy o the canton. It is a center o commerce, trade an finance. Geneva is o international significance anaw as a financial center. A great number o Swiss banks are locatit in Geneva, pairticularly in the aurie o private bankin.
Some critics of inclusive democracy ask what guarantees an inclusive democracy may offer in ensuring a better relationship of society to nature than the alternative systems of the market economy, or socialist statism. For example, David Pepper, an eco-socialist, pointed out "the 'required' ecological consensus among ecotopia's inhabitants might not be ensured merely by establishing an Athenian democracy where all are educated and rational". However, ID supporters counter-argue that this criticism represents a clear misconception of what democracy is about because,
Automatic or Manually Assisted: Automatic, in "-autonomous" mode. Sometimes the bot will run in manual assisted mode to solve interwiki conflicts.
The Mennonite encyclopedia : a comprehensive reference work on the Anabaptist-Mennonite movement. [Editors: Harold S. Bender and C. Henry Smith]. Hillsboro, Kansas : Mennonite Brethren Publishing House, 1972-1976
Satellite Mentality. Political Attitudes and Propaganda Susceptibilities of Non-Communists in Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia. A Report of the Bureau of Applied Social Research, Columbia University. New York, 1956.
Karl, Rebecca, et Peter Zarrow, eds. 2002. Rethinking the 1898 Reform Period: Political and Cultural Change in Late Qing China. Cantabrigiae Massachusettae: Harvard University Press.
"Fundamental contributions to the X-ray : the three original communications on a new kind of ray / Wilhelm Conrad Röentgen, 1972 1972". National Library of Medicine.
Sacara struktural, aci ngabentuk clusters of linked linéar polymers, where the alpha-1,4 linked chains form columns of glucose units which branch regularly at the alpha-1,6 links. The relative content of amylose and amylopectin varies between species, and between different cultivars of the same species. Pikeun conto, jagong luhung amilosa ngandung 85% amilosa, sedengkeun aci waxy corn ngandung leuwih ti 99% amilopéktin.
The supporters of the 1960 strike put up candidates in the sugar cane districts in the 1963 Legislative Council election under the banner of Citizens Federation and all won by large margins. The Federation of Cane Growers members of Legislative Council, together with other like-minded individuals formed the Federation Party in 1964.The name was later changed to National Federation Party with the inclusion of two minor ethnic Fijian parties. Until 1987, the Federation of Cane Growers was the main farmers' union in Fiji, while the National Federation Party was the main party of the Fiji Indians.
Mellander, Gustavo A.(1971) The United States in Panamanian Politics: The Intriguing Formative Years. Daville,Ill.:Interstate Publishers. OCLC 138568.
Laplace, P.S. (1951). A Philosophical Essay on Probabilities. Translated from the 6th French edition by Truscott, F.W. and Emory, F.L. New York: Dover Publications.
Lubbert R1535 R1568 R1606 R1606 R1630b H1780b H1824a# S1535a S1604 S1606b S1606b S1606b S1665b S1749b S1829b# S1840a# S1860b# U1568# U1606 St1568
New York Times, 2007: Donors Sweetened Director's Pay At MoMA, Prompting Questions Controversy over the compensation package of MoMA's Director, Glenn D. Lowry.
Ang orihinal na animation ay ginawa ng dalawampu't-limang taong gulang na si Christopher Torres ng Dallas, Texas. Ginagamit niya ang pangalang "prguitarman" sa kanyang website na LOL-Comics. Ito ay i-pinost noong ika-2 ng Abril, 2011. Sabi ni Torres sa isang interview: "I was doing a donation drive for the Red Cross and in-between drawings in my Livestream video chat, two different people mentioned I should draw a 'Pop Tart' and a 'cat'." Bilang pagtugon, gumawa siya ng pinaghalong imahe ng Pop-tart at pusa, na ginawang animadong GIF nang ilang araw ang nakalipas. Sabi niya: "Originally, its name was Pop Tart Cat, and I will continue to call it so, but the Internet has reached a decision to name it Nyan Cat, and I’m happy with that choice, too."
Marie Watt was born in 1967 in Seattle, Washington. She majored in art and communications at Willamette University in Salem, Oregon. She also explored museum studies at the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe. She holds an AFA degree from the Institute of American Indian Arts, a BS degree from Willamette University and an MFA degree in Painting and Printmaking from Yale University. Watt is a member of the Turtle Clan of the Seneca Nation and her father's family were Wyoming ranchers. These two factors in her background have influenced her artwork; Watt describes herself as "half Cowboy and half Indian."
Bussy-Saint-Georges (pronounced [bysi sɛ̃ ʒɔʁʒ]) is a commune in the eastern suburbs of Paris, France. It is located 25.5 km (15.8 miles) from the center of Paris, in the Seine-et-Marne department in the Île-de-France region in north-central France.
Derrida, Jacques, 1976 (Inggris). Undecidables and old names: Derrida's deconstruction and Introduction to Husserl's The Origin of Geometry.
Geneva feenally joined the Swiss Confederation in 1815 as the 22nt canton, haein been enlairgit bi French an Savoyard territories at the Vienna Congress.
Often the tropical species are especially threatened by habitat destruction and overexploitation. At least two species of Ilex have become extinct recently, and many others are barely surviving.
Ower hauf o the supply o palladium an its congener platinum gangs intae catalytic converters, that convert up tae 90% o harmfu gases frae auto exhaust (hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, an nitrogen dioxide) intae less-harmful substances (nitrogen, carbon dioxide an watter vapor). Palladium is uised in electronics, dentistry, medicine, hydrogen purification, chemical applications, groundwatter treatment an jewelry. Palladium plays a key role in the technology uised for fuel cells, that combine hydrogen an oxygen tae produce electricity, heat, an watter.
Thomas Richard "Tom" Hamilton Jr. (born December 31, 1978, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American songwriter, musician, and producer best known as the lead vocalist and guitarist for the bands Brothers Past, American Babies, Joe Russo's Almost Dead, Bill Kreutzmann's Billy & the Kids, and Electron.
Parenti, Paola, and John E. Randall. Ichthyological Bulletin of the J. L. B. Smith Institute of Ichthyology, no. 68. Rhodes Univ., Grahamstown, South Africa, J. L. B. Smith Institute of Ichthyology, 2000. с. 97.
Cycolor is a tradename for a (possibly obsolete) color printing process that uses a special film coated with millions of capsules filled with cyan, magenta, and yellow dyes, monomer, and photo-initiators. When exposed to red, green, and/or blue light, the contents of the respective capsules polymerize, and therefore become hard and unbreakable. The film is then pressed against specially treated paper, and the capsules that have not hardened in the previous process break, releasing their contents onto the paper.
Kuhn, Sherman M. "Old English Aglaeca-Middle Irish Olach". Linguistic Method : Essays in Honor of Herbert Penzl. Eds. Irmengard Rauch and Gerald F. Carr. The Hague, New York: Mouton Publishers, 1979. 213–30.
Ishyirwaho ry'Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti was first recommended in the report of the Itsinda Rikurikirana iby'Imicungire n'Imiyoborere ya Interineti following a series of open consultations. This report was one of the inputs to the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis in 2005, which formally called for the creation of Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti (IGF) and set out its mandate.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). "Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist.". Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
The Helsinki Commission (HELCOM) HELCOM is the governing body of the «Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area»
Showdown in Crescent Valley, 2003: Cover story about the 30-year battle of two Western Shoshone grandmothers trying to live and raise cattle on their ancestral lands
A small Ministry of Defence (which was renamed the Ministry of Defence and Security in 2007) was established in 2002 to provide civilian oversight of the F-FDTL. A lack of suitable staff for the Ministry and the close political relationship between senior F-FDTL officers and government figures rendered this oversight largely ineffectual and retarded the development of East Timor's defence policy up to at least 2004. The failure to institute effective civilian oversight of the F-FDTL also limited the extent to which foreign countries are willing to provide assistance to the F-FDTL and contributed to the 2006 crisis. As at early 2010 the Ministry of Defence and Security was organised into elements responsible for defence (including the F-FDTL) and security (including the PNTL), each headed by their own Secretary of State. At this time the East Timorese Government was working to expand the Ministry's capacity with assistance from UNMIT, but continuing shortages of qualified staff limited the extent to which the Ministry could provide civilian oversight to the security sector.
1951 (interpres) : A Celtic Miscellany: Translations from the Celtic Literatures. Londinii: Routledge (editio recensa: Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1972)
The palace of the baths (thermarum), of which a solid and lofty hall still subsists in the rue de la Harpe. The buildings covered a considerable space of the modern quarter of the university; and the gardens, under the Merovingian kings, communicated with the abbey of St. Germain des Prés. By the injuries of time and the Normans this ancient palace was reduced in the twelfth century to a maze of ruins, whose dark recesses were the scene of licentious love.
Hirshfeld, Alan, and Roger W. Sinnott, eds., Sky Catalogue 2000.0, Vol.2, Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Corp. and Cambridge University Press, 1985. (3098,238)
His fourth team at Murray State won more games than any in school history, reaching the second round of the NCAA tournament. The 13th-seeded Racers beat fourth-seed Vanderbilt University 66-65 in the first round in the West Regional at San Jose, California, before falling 54-52 to fifth-seeded Butler University in the second round, equaling the deepest run in the NCAA tournament in school history. During the season, the Racers won a school record 17 games in a row before losing 70-65 at Morehead State University on February 25, 2010. The Racers finished the season with a 31-5 record, including a 17-1 conference mark, and avenged their lone league loss with a 62-51 win over Morehead State in the OVC tournament championship game.
The city has benefited from one of the most significant growths in France. The population has multiplied by 55 in 29 years, between 1982 and 2011.
Juanvak Prokasovnni / Revelations 1 : 6 - ani Aplea Devachi ani Bapachi seva korunk Tannem amkam [razvôttki ani ladniki keleant]. Hea Jezu Kristak mhoima ani podvi sodam-sorvodam. Amen! / who has made us into a kingdom, priests for his God and Father, to him be glory and power forever [and ever]. Amen
Lefapha la DHET le tshwaragane le dikholetshe tsa tsweletso thuto le tlhapetso, (further education and training (FET) colleges), disenthara tsa thuto ya bagolo tsa motheo letlhapetso, (adult basic education and training (ABET) centres), le ditheo tsa thutokgolo,(higher education (HE) institutions.)
a: Santanu was a king of the Kuru dynasty or kingdom, and was some generations removed from any ancestor called Kuru. His marriage to Ganga preceded his marriage to Satyavati.
William H. Worger,Nancy L. Clark,Edward A. Alpers "Africa and the West: From colonialism to independence, 1875 to the present" Ed Oxford univeristy press 2010
In 1987, CBS provided prime time coverage for Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals, marking the network's first pre-Finals prime time playoff telecast since 1975. CBS was able to do this because the NBA decided to push the Finals back from late May until early June. With the Finals starting a week later, the awkward long pauses between Games 1 and 2 were no longer required. Because of this, instead of Game 2 of the Finals being shown on the first night after sweeps ended, CBS could show Game 6 of the Conference Finals.
The initials ch and ts are constantly confounded, and some persons are absolutely unable to detect the difference, more frequently calling the words under ts as ch, than contrariwise.
A news organization's budget inevitably reflects decision-making about what news to cover, for what audience, and in what depth. Those decisions may reflect conscious or unconscious bias. When budgets are cut, editors may sacrifice reporters in distant news bureaus, reduce the number of staff assigned to low-income areas, or wipe entire communities from the publication's zone of interest.
Chosnee Ten Canoes aundyr Un Certain Regard ec y Cannes Film Festival 2006. Hie eh er enmys da shiaght aundyryn yn Australian Film Institute, as chosnee eh shey jeu: Fillym Share (Julie Ryan & Rolf de Heer er son stiureydys), Stiureyder Share (Rolf de Heer & Peter Djigirr), Script Noa Share - (Rolf de Heer), Scannaneaght Hare (Ian Jones), Reagheydys Share (Tania Nehme) as Sheean Share (James Currie, Tom Heuzenroeder, Michael Bakaloff & Rory McGregor). Chosnee eh tree aundyryn jeh Film Critics Circle of Australia: Fillym Share, Reagheydys Share (Tania Nehme) as Scannaneaght Hare (Ian Jones).
Chaar overseas regions of France (régions d'outre-mer, or ROM): Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, and Réunion, have the same status as metropolitan France and are not listed here. (Analogous to the state of Hawaii having the same status as a continental U.S. state).
Bruce D. Perry, The Neurodevelopmental Impact of Violence in Childhood, Chapter 18: In Textbook of Child and Adolescent Forensic Psychiatry, (Eds., D. Schetky ja E.P. Benedek) American Psychiatric Press, Inc., Washington, D.C. lk 221–238, 2001
On 11 Dizember 2003, Yoo met a new girlfriend (escort girl) but later she foond oot Yoo's leet o creemes an tauld Yoo no tae see her again. He then decidit tae kill escort girls as a revenge.
The 1980–1981 season was arguably the rock bottom point of the tape delay era for CBS. CBS aired four of the six Finals games on tape delay and six of nine during the Conference Finals. Just like the previous year, CBS scheduled Games 3 and 4 of the NBA Finals without an off-day to avoid yet another tape delayed game. CBS wanted the Pacific teams to advance in the playoffs so that they could show live games at 11:30 p.m. on the Eastern U.S.; however, the Los Angeles Lakers and Portland Trail Blazers were upset in Round 1, while the Phoenix Suns were upset in Round 2. This left two teams located in the Central Time Zone, the Houston Rockets and Kansas City Kings, to play in the Western Conference Finals.
The earliest records state that the Mersey ferry began operating from Birkenhead in 1150, when Benedictine monks under the leadership of Hamon de Mascy built a priory there.[4][5]
CBS has implied that it is unlikely to bid on further sports rights beyond those it already holds, including the NBA, because of the extensive investment it has made into its existing sports portfolio (especially college basketball).
Following his affair with airline flight attendant Suzen Johnson in 1997, Gifford was replaced in the broadcast booth by Boomer Esiason in 1998. That season, he was reassigned to a nominal role for ABC's Monday night pregame show, but the program was cancelled after one season. Gifford was not offered a new role by the network. Gifford was also host of British TV network Channel 4's NFL coverage with British born former New England Patriots kicker John Smith in 1986, which included coverage of Super Bowl XXI.
Hello, Sorry for English but It's very important for bot operators so I hope someone translates this. Pywikipedia is migrating to Git so after July 26, SVN checkouts won't be updated If you're using Pywikipedia you have to switch to git, otherwise you will use out-dated framework and your bot might not work properly. There is a manual for doing that and a blog post explaining about this change in non-technical language. If you have question feel free to ask in mw:Manual talk:Pywikipediabot/Gerrit, mailing list, or in the IRC channel. Best Amir (via Global message delivery). 12:52, 23 июля 2013 (UTC)
At the May 2013 I/O developers conference in San Francisco, Page delivered a keynote address and said that "We're at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we're still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity... Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That's boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don't exist" and that he was "sad the Web isn't advancing as fast as it should be" citing a perceived focus on negativity and zero sum games among some in the technology sector as a cause for that. In response to an audience question, Page noted an issue that Google had been experiencing with Microsoft, whereby the latter made its Outlook program interoperable with Google, but did not allow for backward compatibility—he referred to Microsoft's practice as "milking off." During the question-and-answer section of his keynote, Page expressed interest in Burning Man, which Brin had previously praised—it was a motivating factor for the latter during Schmidt's hiring process, as Brin liked that Schmidt had attended the week-long annual event.
The abolition of the Portuguese monarchy in 1910 raised hopes that the colonies would be granted self-determination; however, when Portuguese colonial policies remained unchanged, an organised and dedicated anti-colonial movement emerged. Luís de Menezes Bragança founded O Heraldo, the first Portuguese language newspaper in Goa, which was critical of Portuguese colonial rule.प्रारूप:Citation needed In 1917, the "Carta Organica" law was passed, overseeing all civil liberties in Goa.
Na guthaí eile: Bob BergenJillian BowenJohanna BraddyJohn CyganCourtnee DraperBill FarmerAndy Fischer-PriceTeresa GanzelJess HarnellJesse HeadSherry LynnDanny MannMickie McGowanAlec MedlockLaraine NewmanJan RabsonMeagan SmithMarisa TheodoreCrawford WilsonJacob Zachar
Boomer Esiason hosts an NFL preview show every week (appropriately called NFL Preview), where he and Scott Graham analyze each game in depth and provide information about what players and other factors will play roles in the upcoming week. This program runs through Super Bowl Sunday and is thirty minutes in length, but runs for an hour leading into the Super Bowl.
Study of the conservation treatment applied to the archaeological horn silver artefacts,članak u METAL 2013,Edinburgh 2013.,Conference Proceedings
On 29 January and 14 May 2013 RISCOS Ltd was listed in the London Gazette: on 14 May 2013 it was struck from the register of companies and dissolved.
Through 17 weeks of the 2008 season (September 4 – December 28, 2008), the NFL on CBS' regular-season games were seen by an estimated 150.9 million viewers, +14% higher than NBC’s 132.4 million viewers, +3% higher than Fox’s 146.9 million viewers, and +52% higher than ESPN’s 99.4 million. The cumulative audience is based on Total Viewers (Persons 2+) who have watched at least six minutes of NFL game coverage since the start of the 2008 regular-season. Plantilla:Citation needed
The Wikimedia Foundation would like your feedback about how we can reimagine Wikimedia Foundation grants, to better support people and ideas in your Wikimedia project. Ways to participate:
Lambert, R.B. (2004). Hydrogeology of Webb County, Texas [Scientific Investigations Report 2004-5022]. Reston, VA: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
The King's Speech is a 2010 Breetish biographical drama film directit bi Tom Hooper an written bi David Seidler. Colin Firth plays Keeng George VI wha, tae cope wi a stammer, sees Lionel Logue, an Australie speech an leid therapist played bi Geoffrey Rush. The men acome friends as thay wirk thegither, an efter his brither abdicates the throne, the new keeng relies on Logue tae help him mak his first wartime radio broadcast on Breetain's declaration o war on Germany in 1939.
Dalam contoh ini, two numerals are being added together: 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 02 (95810) dan 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 12 (69110). The top row shows the carry bits used. Instead of the standard carry from one column to the next, the lowest place-valued "1" with a "1" in the corresponding place value beneath it may be added dan a "1" may be carried to one digit past the end of the series. These numbers must be crossed off since they are already added. Then simply add that hasil to the uncanceled digits in the second row. Proceeding like this gives the final answer 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 12 (164910).
Bryophyllum delagoense (Eckl. & Zeyh.) Schinz, Kalanchoe delagoense, Bryophyllum tubiflorum, [Mother of thousands, Chandelier plant, Friendly neighbour]; ʻoku ʻikai hano lau tongitongi
Gillison, Douglas (1962). Australia in the War of 1939–1945: Series Three (Air) Volume I – Royal Australian Air Force 1939–1942 (em inglês). Camberra: Australian War Memorial. OCLC 2000369
This is a dialect in the Northern part of the Philippines. Villagers from Luzon may speak the same Ilokano dialect but the intonation is different. Most popular province in Luzon is Baguio.
She bann kiaullee Manninagh eh Skeeal. Ta'n possan cloie arraneyn tradishoonagh as Gaelgagh son y chooid smoo as t'ad jannoo ymmyd jeh feddanyn mooarey, gitaryn as goo, as ny h-arranyn oc gleashaghey eddyr ny tree çhengaghyn Gaelgagh - Yernish, Gaelg Albinagh, as Gaelg. Ta daa JC skeaylt magh ec y vann - Long Story as Slipway. Va'n nah JC oc ry-chlashtyn ayns Feailley Eddyr-cheltiagh An Oriant 'sy vlein 2009.
Under Guangwu's rule the Han Empire was restored. Guangwu made Luoyang his capital in 25 AD, and by 27 AD his officers Deng Yu and Feng Yi had forced the Red Eyebrows to surrender and executed their leaders for treason. From 26 until 36 AD, Emperor Guangwu had to wage war against other regional warlords who claimed the title of emperor; when these warlords were defeated, China reunified under the Han.
IALI NGO has been authorised by terminologist Charles Muwanga to post this article from his Luganda terminology works on Luganada Wikipedia for free public consumption.
After Jerry Garcia's death, Carolyn Garcia was involved in litigation to obtain payments as per their divorce settlement agreement, ultimately agreeing to a $1,250,000 settlement to avoid further legal costs.
Oak Pairk is a recreation centre in Walsall Wood consistin o twa swimmin puils, an astro-turf fitbaa pitch, an ither sportin facilities. Walsall Wood F.C. is a fitbaa club competin in the Midland Combination Premier Diveesion. Thay play thair hame gemmes at thair grund locatit at Oak Pairk.
Charles Dickens ke janam 7 February 1812 ke Portsmouth, England me bhaes rahaa. Uske baap rahaa, John Dickens, ek naval pay clerk, aur maiya rahii Elizabeth Barrow.
2004-01-09 ScienceDaily: Mayo Researchers Observe Genetic Fusion Of Human, Animal Cells; May Help Explain Origin Of AIDS Quote: "...The researchers have discovered conditions in which pig cells and human cells can fuse together in the body to yield hybrid cells that contain genetic material from both species... "What we found was completely unexpected", says Jeffrey Platt, M.D."
Stotranchem Pustok / Psalms 46 : 1–3 - Dev amcho asro, To amchem boll, koxttam-akantachea vellar adar diunk sodanch toiar. 2 (a)Bhuim kamplear kampum, dongor khôl doriant umtton poddum, 3 (a)doriachim udkam chollbollum ghollbollum, (3b)lharanchea maran dongor halom, (2b)ami halchim nanv! (3c)Dolbharancho Sorvespor amchea sangata asa, Jakobacho Dev amcho Kil’lo! / God is our refuge and our strength, an ever-present help in distress. 3 Thus we do not fear, though earth be shaken and mountains quake to the depths of the sea, 4 Though its waters rage and foam and mountains totter at its surging.
According to one account, Hearst and the Harrises (now the only survivors of the SLA unit that abducted her) bought a car blocks away while the siege was going on, but it broke down when they stopped in an African American area, leaving them with a total of $50. They walked a few hundred yards from the car and hid in a crawlspace under a residential building. When a late night party started in the room above, Hearst readied her weapon saying "the pigs" were closing in on them; in whispers, the Harrises begged her to calm down. They spent the next two weeks in San Francisco flophouses disguised as derelicts.
On December 29, 1965, CBS acquired the rights to the NFL regular season games in 1966 and 1967, with an option for 1968, for $18.8 (in sharp contrast to the $14.1 million per year in 1964) million per year.
William E. Byerly (1893): An elementary treatise on Fourier's series and spherical, cylindrical, and ellipsoidal harmonics with applications to problems in mathematical physics Ginn & Company.
Malinowski, Bronislaw. 1935. Coral Gardens and Their Magic: A Study of the Methods of Tilling the Soil and of Agricultural Rites in the Trobriand Islands.
Leytron is home to the Bibliothèque communale library. The library has (as of 2008) 7,800 books or other media, and loaned out 12,533 items in the same year. It was open a total of 121 days with average of 9 hours per week during that year.
Anwar Shaikh: Islam and the People of the Book (undated) at Freeman Center for Strategic Studies, Houston, Tx, USA (a pro-Israel promotional organisation)
In court Hearst made a poor impression and appeared lethargic; according to an Associated Press report this was attributable to drugs she was given by prison doctors. Bailey was heavily criticized for his decision to put Hearst on the stand, then having her decline to answer questions in the presence of the jury. According to Alan Dershowitz, Bailey was wrong-footed by the judge appearing to indicate she would have Fifth Amendment privilege (the jury would not be present, or be instructed not to draw inferences) on matters subsequent to the Hibernian bank charges that she was being tried on, but then changing his mind.
The cultural association Friends of Skyritida opened a folklore museum in Kollines in 1997. Located in the high school, the museum displays tools, clothes, photographs, and other print material to show how the older generations lived in the area.
Castellbell i el Vilar is kent for its cotton industry, awtho agricultur is at least as important tae the local economy. Castellbell castle (gothic, fowerteent hunderyear) wis ane o the twa main points (alang wi Claramunt castle) controllin access tae the lawer Llobregat valley, an hence tae Barcelona. The brig ower the Llobregat dates frae the fowerteent hunderyear an aw.
Reason and Rationality, by Richard Samuels, Stephen Stich, Luc Faucher on the broad field of reason and rationality from descriptive, normative, and evaluative points of view
Kabali sa mga naisurat niya iyo an pagpalis niya sa Ingles kan obra kultural ni Mariano Goyena del Prado an Ibalon: Ethnohistory of the Bikol Region (1983) (Ibalon: Monografia historica de la region bicolana), Bikols of the Philippines (1984), Bikol Dramatic Tradition (1989), Haliya Anthology of Bikol Poets and Poems (2004), Bikol Literary History (2004) asin Jose T. Fuentebella: Nationalist and Statesman (2004). Kan Pebrero 2011, ipigbungsod niya an saiyang Bikol Poetry Galore At Last A Report, sarong kritika sa mga bagong rawitdawit.
Facilitative leadership is too dependent on measurements and outcomes – not a skill, although it takes much skill to master. The effectiveness of a group is directly related to the efficacy of its process. If the group is high functioning, the facilitative leader uses a light hand on the process.
Page, Tim. 2006. "Classical Music: Great Composers, a Less-Than-Great Poser and an Operatic Impresario". Washington Post (Sunday, 30 July): BW13.
Studies in Upper Kuskokwim Athabaskan, a language of interior Alaska, Andrej A. Kibrik (Institute of Linguistics, Moscow), Tomsk, June 26, 2002
Mohaxmoyugin somskritayekodden tancho sombond axil'lo oxem-i mot manddttat. Kolddovelachea motan drovidd he turaniyon vonxaulliche asun te dusrekoddosun bhartant aile. Zalear kaim vidvananchea motan te bhartantole ary purv raupi. Vedik somskritayeuyolo drovidd bhaxancho probhavo polloilear hachem promann melltta. Punn hea sogllea motantlean ek thoravik mot vegllaup kotthinn zata.
Stuhler, Barbara. "Organizing for the Vote: Leaders of Minnesota's Woman Suffrage Movement," Minnesota History 54, no. 3 (Fall 1995):290-303.
Rachel Anderson: Redressing Colonial Genocide Under International Law: The Hereros' Cause of Action Against Germany. In: 93 California Law Review 1155, 2005 (online).
A project dedicatit tae restorin airtifacts frae the kirk, Zegache Talleres Comunitarios, wis foondit bi penter Rodolfo Morales, an continues tae employ an train mony local fowk.
On August 3, 2010, MGM Home Entertainment released Escape From New York as a bare-bones Blu-ray. Scream Factory, in association with Shout! Factory, released the film on a special edition Blu-ray on April 21, 2015.
Angka perduaan biasanya disebut digit demi digit, in order to distinguish them from decimal numbers. Contohnya, the binary numeral 100 dilafazkan satu kosong kosong, bukannya seratus, to make its binary nature explicit, dan untuk tujuan kebetulan. Since the binary numeral 100 is equal to the decimal value four, it would be confusing to refer to the numeral as one hundred.
Shiu Sharan Sharma, Fiji ke ek politician rahaa jon ki Fiji Labour Party ke support karat rahaa. 1992 ke election me uu Nawaka/Sabeto Indian Constituency se Fiji ke House of Representatives me chuna gais rahaa. 1994 ke election me uu ii constituency se fir se chuna gais rahaa. 1999 ke election me uu [[Nadi Rural Indian Communal Constituency (Fiji) 1999 - 2006|Nadi Rural Indian Communal Constituency se chuna gais rahaa aur Chaudhry Sarkar me Minister for Works and Energy rahaa. 19 May 2000 ke Sharma, uu 43 People's Coalition Government members me se ek rahaa jiske George Speight and his band of rebel Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF) soldiers from the Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit hostage banae liis rahaa. Uske 12 July 2000 ke chorraa gais rahaa.
Wikipedia was launched as the English Wikipedia on 15 Jenụwarị 2001, as a complement to Nupedia, an expert-written and now defunct encyclopedia. The project is now operated by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization created by Jimmy Wales who is the co-founder of Wikipedia. Wikipedia has over six million articles in 250 languages, including more than 1.6 million in the English edition. It has steadily risen in popularity since its inception. and currently ranks among the eleven most-visited websites worldwide.
Rolex Watch Index, a handy reference index of current Rolex watches, listing by calibre, case material, water resistance, diameter, thickness(height) and model number.
Asatrian N. Kh. Gevorgian, “Zaza Miscellany. Notes on Some Religious Customs and Institutions,” in A Green Leaf. Papers in Honour of Prof. Jes P. Asmussen, Acta Iranica 28, Leiden, 1988, pp. 499-508.
The economic position of widows has been an important social issue in many societies. In societies in which the husband was typically the sole provider, his death could plunge his family into poverty. This was aggravated by women's longer life spans, and that men generally marry women younger than themselves. Many charities existed to help widows and orphans (often, not children without parents, but children without a contributing father) in need.
This Is Reggae Music: The Golden Era 1960-1975 is a reggae retrospective anthology issued as a 4-CD box set in 2001 by Trojan Records. The anthology, which was compiled by Colin Escott and Bas Hartong, is arranged in chronological order and features tracks by various artists, starting with mento and ska from first half of the 1960s, then progressing to the slower rhythms of rocksteady and reggae, which emerged later the decade, continuing into the 1970s. Several of the acts featured are Derrick Morgan, Desmond Decker& the Aces, Toots & the Maytals, Jimmy Cliff, and Bob Marley and the Wailers.
Cerium is a chemical element wi seembol Ce an atomic nummer 58. It is a saft, silvery, ductile metal which easily oxidizes in air. Cerium wis named efter the dwarf planet Ceres (itsel named for the Roman goddess o agricultur). Cerium is the maist abundant o the rare yird elements, makin up aboot 0.0046% o the Yird's crust bi wicht. It is foond in a feck o minerals, the maist important bein monazite an bastnasite. Thare a wheen o ommercial applications o cerium. Thay include catalysts, additives fur tae fuel tae reduce emissions an tae glass an enamels tae chynge thair colour. Cerium oxide is an important component o gless polishin pouders an phosphors uised in screens an fluorescent lamps. It is uised in the "flint" (actually ferrocerium) o lichters.
Jeanthon, C., L'Haridon, S., Cueff, V., Banta, A., Reysenbach, A. L. ja Prieur, D. (2002). "Thermodesulfobacterium hydrogeniphilum sp. nov., a thermophilic, chemolithoautotrophic, sulfate-reducing bacterium isolated from a deep-sea hydrothermal vent at Guaymas Basin, and emendation of the genus Thermodesulfobacterium". Int. J. Syst. Evol. Microbiol. 52 (Pt 3): 765–72. PMID 12054236.
Feature articles are usually longer forms of writing; more attention is paid to style than in straight news reports. They are often combined with photographs, drawings or other "art." They may also be highlighted by typographic effects or colors.
Mandarin ducks are referred to by the Chinese as Yuan-yang (simplified Chinese: 鸳鸯; traditional Chinese: 鴛鴦; pinyin: yuān yāng), where yuan (鴛) and yang (鴦) respectively stand for male and female mandarin ducks. In traditional Chinese culture, mandarin ducks are believed to be lifelong couples, unlike other species of ducks. Hence they are regarded as a symbol of conjugal affection and fidelity, and are frequently featured in Chinese art.
Hershey, A.D. as Chase, M. (1952) Independent functions of viral protein and nucleic acid in growth of bacteriophage. J Gen Physiol. 36:39-56.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 42,112 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 66.69 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 5610.
Inclusive Democracy as a political project for a new libertarian synthesis : rationale, proposed social structure and transition. Talk at the CNT centenary conference on self-management, Barcelona (April 10, 2010).
She was now recognised as a prominent young poet and the Polish National Radio offered her a job to create and lead a team to broadcast The Radio Song Studio. She also worked on theatre and television productions. Together with composer Adam Sławiński she wrote a series called „Listy śpiewające“ ("Singing Letters“). Her first major theatre show „Niech no tylko zakwitną jabłonie“ ("Let the Apple-trees Bloom") was staged at the Ateneum Theatre.
When people want to indicate their proficiency in a language, they use the Babel extension for this. Sadly the extension has not yet been localised for the Picard language. Could someone please help us and localise the Babel extension for the Picard language. Thanks, Gmeijssen 1 ed Févrié 2012 à 18:55 (UTC)
At about the same time as the AT&T Building, Johnson and Burgee completed other remarkable postmodern skyscrapers; the Bank of America Center (Formerly Republic Bank Center) in Houston (1983) and the PPG Place, the headquarters of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass company (1979–84). Both buildings combined modern materials, construction and scale with suggestions of traditional architecture. The forms of PPG Place suggested the neogothic tower of the Houses of Parliament in London, while the Bank of America Center appeared inspired, on a colossal scale, the stepped houses of Flemish Renaissance architecture.
In 2008, Shealy worked on the campaign of State Senator Catherine Ceips. Tom Davis, the former chief of staff to Mark Sanford was expected to announce that he would be running against Ceips. Davis' house was being painted at the time. Ceips' chief of staff, Randy Bates, arrived at the house and spoke with Josias Mirales Ayala, who claimed to be an illegal immigrant hired to paint Davis' house. Shealy subsequently submitted a photograph of Ayala to Associated Press reporter Jim Davenport and explained that he was an illegal alien. Davis condemned the action, saying "I call on Ms. Ceips to fire Rod Shealy and Randy Bates, the two operatives who carried out this dirty trick."
1951-1956 : West Coast Sounds - Shorty Rogers, Fresh Sounds, 2006 (comprend Modern Sounds, 1951 ; Cool and Crazy, 1953 ; Shorty Rogers courts the Count, 1954...)
While Lippman's journalistic philosophy might be more acceptable to government leaders, Dewey's approach is a better description of how many journalists see their role in society, and, in turn, how much of society expects journalists to function. Americans, for example, may criticize some of the excesses committed by journalists, but they tend to expect journalists to serve as watchdogs on government, businesses and actors, enabling people to make informed decisions on the issues of the time.
Greetings. Starting on August 21 (tomorrow), all users with an account will be using HTTPS to access Wikimedia sites. HTTPS brings better security and improves your privacy. More information is available at m:HTTPS.
White, Leonard D. The Jeffersonians: A Study in Administrative History, 1801–1829 (1951), explains the operation and organization of federal administration
Wikidata is a central place to store data that you can usually find in infoboxes. Think of it as something like Wikimedia Commons but for data (like the number of inhabitants of a country or the length of a river) instead of multimedia. The first part of this project (centralizing language links) is being rolled out now. The more fancy things will follow later.
Cochabamba Depairtment is bordered bi Chuquisaca an Potosi Depairtment tae the sooth, Oruro an La Paz Depairtment tae the wast, Beni Depairtment tae the north, an Santa Cruz Depairtment tae the east. The borders are formit mainly bi rivers, like Ichilo tae the east, Rio Grande tae the sooth an Cotacajes tae the wast.
Peirce, Neal R. The Deep South States of America: People, Politics, and Power in the Seven Deep South States (1974). Information on politics and economics 1960–72.
After a few transition years in India, Nasrat and his family immigrated to Germany. Establishing contact with other fellow countrymen in Hamburg, Nasrat became more involved in the music scene with the other exiled Afghan singers and musicians.
Note that this cluster does have SUL but it is not integrated with SUL in production, so you'll need to create another account. You should avoid using the same password as you use here. — Global message delivery 23:56, 14 января 2012 (UTC)
The Wikipedia Library gets Wikipedia editors free access to reliable sources that are behind paywalls. I want to alert you to our latest donation.
On November 5, 2013, the Cubs exercised an option to opt out of its television contract with WGN-TV following the 2014 season; as part of the move, the team gave the station a 30-day window to make a counteroffer – which, in any instance, would raise the rights fees that the station pays the team from its current annual rate of $20 million – to obtain rights to games starting with the 2015 Major League Baseball season (the opt-out option reduced the duration of an agreement to broadcast Cubs games that regional sports network Comcast SportsNet Chicago does not hold rights to from 2022 to 2019, aligning it with the end of the current term of the cable channel's contract); if WGN-TV opts not to produce a suitable bid or any bid at all, the broadcast rights would be opened up for negotiation with other local broadcast and cable television outlets. However in January 2014, reports surfaced that the Cubs and WGN-TV discussed an option to allow the station to carry a reduced number of games for the 2015 season onward should the contract be renewed.
Kubvengedza kana kubvengedzera (become distraught or unbalanced in speaking - in regards to manner, not matter). Vamwe vanobvengedza kana vanwa hwahwa, asi vamwe mugariro.
Venerabilissimus Ordo Sancti Ioannis (Anglice Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem) est ordo equitum regni Britanniarum anno 1888 creatus.
Rheindt, F. E. & Austin, Jeremy J. (2005): Major analytical and conceptual shortcomings in a recent taxonomic revision of the Procellariiformes—A reply to Penhallurick and Wink (2004). Emu 105(2): 181–186 PDF kompleta teksto
Jesuit Refugee Service: serving, accompanying and advocating for the rights of refugees and internally displaced people in more than 57 countries.
A favorite traditional folk song of Pangasinan is Malinak Lay Labi, which is translated "Calm is the Night." An English translation of this song can be found in the Internet along with some Pangasinan poems and literature.
Treateth is a melodic daith metal baund. In the beginning named Hostilis Of Mort. They are frae Guatemala Ceety, Guatemala. It wis formed at the end o 2007, as an idea o brithers Erick an Marco Orozco. The baund haes released ane EP, five singles, an ane studio album being recordit.
An rol ma a dhrehevyansow an uhella yn Newark a wradheg tourow ebren y’n cita S.U. a Newark, Jersi Nowyth der uhelder. Drehevyans an uhella yn Newark yw National Newark Building a 34 leur, hag a omsav 465 ts (142 m) hag a veu kowlwrys yn 1931.
Within Goa and Portugal, periodic demands for autonomy for Portuguese India continued. In July 1946, a public meeting was held which openly petitioned the Salazar administration to grant autonomy to the Estado da India. The meeting was facilitated by José Inácio de Loyola, and inspired the formation of a committee chaired by Uday Bhembre to pursue autonomy. Bhembre's committee failed to provoke a response from the Portuguese administration, and subsequently the last demand for autonomy was made by Purushottam Kakodkar in early 1961.
Herm. R1606 R1606 R1606 R1749a R1780 R1780 R1780 R1780 R1780 R1820b R1820b R1820b R1820b R1820b R1820c R1860a R1860a R1860b R1860b R1860b R1860b R1860b 1860c 1860c H1606 H1780a H1780a H1780a H1780b H1780b H1824a H1824a H1824d H1824d H1840 S1535a S1535a S1535b S1568a S1568a S1568b S1568b S1606a S1606b S 1606b S1630b S1749a S1749a S1749a S1749b S1749b S1749b S1749b S1749c S1812a S1812b S1812b S1812b S1812b S1812b S1812c S1812c S1829a S1829b S1829b S1829c S1829c S1829c S1829e S1829e S1829e S1840a S1840b S1840b S1860a S1860a S1860 b S1860b S1860b S1860b S1860b S1860b S1860d S1860d S1860d S1860e S1860f S1860f S1860# U1535 U1535 U1535 U1568 U1568 U1606 U1630a U1820b St1840 B1606 B17 49 R1713b U1860c
Atypical histories are not unusual and are more often associated with suppurative appendicitis. This condition often starts with right lower quadrant pain and may smolder with non-specific symptoms (e.g.,malaise,lethargy and/or fever) for several days before a diagnosis of appendicitis can be made. Diarrhea, a symptom of gastroenteritis, may occur if the appendiceal inflammation irritates adjacent intestine. Diagnosis is more difficult and surgery removes an appendix that is suppurative, gangrenous or ruptured.
The operation of Wikipedia depends on MediaWiki, a custom-made, open source wiki software platform written in PHP and built upon the MySQL database. The software incorporates modern programming features, such as a macro language, variables, a transclusion system for templates, and URL redirection. MediaWiki is licensed under the GNU General Public License and used by all Wikimedia projects, as well as many other wiki projects. Originally, Wikipedia ran on UseModWiki written in Perl by Clifford Adams (Phase I), which initially required CamelCase for article hyperlinks; the present double brackets were incorporated later. Starting in Jenụwarị 2002 (Phase II), Wikipedia began running on a PHP wiki engine with a MySQL database; this software was custom-made for Wikipedia by Magnus Manske. The Phase II software was repeatedly modified to accommodate the exponentially increasing demand. In Julaị 2002 (Phase III), Wikipedia shifted to the third-generation software, MediaWiki, originally written by Lee Daniel Crocker.
Barricks Kaundie Pennsilfaani Orphans Court, dated 6 Feb. 1775: Petition of Christian Stoltzfus, only son of Nicholas Stoltzfus, deceased; John Schmucker and Barbara his wife (one of the daughters of deceased); Christian Fohrer of Oley and Anna his wife (one of the daughters of the deceased); and Jacob Kurtz, of Cumru, guardian of Magdalena (over 14, another daughter of deceased). Nicholas Stoltzfus died intestate leaving a widow Anna and the above 4 children. Owned 1/2 part of 2 tracts of land containing 101 1/2 acres and 70 acres.
The Wikimedia Foundation is planning to do limited testing of IPv6 on June 2-3. If there are not too many problems, we may fully enable IPv6 on World IPv6 day (June 6), and keep it enabled.
Wikidata is a central place to store data that you can usually find in infoboxes. Think of it as something like Wikimedia Commons but for data (like the number of inhabitants of a country or the length of a river) instead of multimedia. The first part of this project (centralizing language links) is being rolled out now. The more fancy things will follow later.
In Malaysie, the term Federal Territory (Malay: Wilayah Persekutuan) is used for the three territories govrened directly bi the federal govrenment, namely Kuala Lumpur (naitional caipital), Putrajaya (federal govrenment admeenistrative centre) an Labuan (international offshore financial centre).
Gyatso, Janet. 1985. "The development of the gcod tradition." In Soundings in Tibetan Civilization. B.N. Aziz and M. Kapstein, eds, pp. 320–341. New Delhi: Manohar
The availability of feldspar, quartz, mineral water and garnet deposits are known in the district, but except dolomite and granite quarries, modern mining activity of any mineral was not started yet. As to industry, only 10 flourmills and one blocket factory were available in the indicated year. They provided employment opportunities for 44 persons.
It is part of the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality. Lenasia is approximately 35 kilometres south west of the Johannesburg central business district and 45 kilometres south of Sandton.
In 2003, the corruption charges were raised by હઝારે against 4 ministers of the Congress-NCP government belonging to the NCP. He started his 'fast unto death' on 9 August 2003. He ended his fast on 17 August 2003 after then chief minister Sushil Kumar Shinde formed a one man commission, headed by the retired justice P. B. Sawant to probe his charges. The P. B. Sawant commission report, submitted on 23 February 2005, indicted Suresh Jain, Nawab Malik and Padmasinh Patil. The report exonerated Vijaykumar Gavit. Suresh Jain and Nawab Malik resigned from the cabinet in March 2005.
it is not impossible that the association of Hywel with the law reflects more on twelfth- and thirteenth century south Welsh attempts to re-establish the importance and influence of their line in an age dominated by the princes of Gwynedd.
An opinion on the Bunjevac dialect, issued by Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, at the request of the Council of Vojvodina Croats (hırvatça)
A tree, auld-farrant an poetic plural: treen, uisit in Nn., is a heich plaunt wi a trunk an brainches makkit o wid. It can live for mony a year. The fower main pairts o a tree is the ruits, the trunk, the brainches or beuchs, an the leafs.
Rre Cornelius Ramatlhakwana ke Moemedi mogolo wa BotswanaPost yo a tsereng maemo mo go rre Pele Moleta yo a tlogetseng tiro ka kgwedi ya Mopitlo a ya go dirila kwa bankeng ya Barclays. Go thapiwa ga ga rre Ramatlhakwane, yo eleng tona ya Business development ko BotswanaPost go dirilwe phatlalatsa lefatshe ka bophara, mo go neng ga netefadiwa ke moemedi wa ditlhaeletsanyo mo komponing Lebogang Bok ka mafoko a a makhutshwane a areng ''It is not clear what will happen to the current acting Chief Executive, Setshedi Botlhole-Mmopi who was appointed shortly after the abrupt departure of Moleta who now works as Chief Operations Officer for Barclays Bank Botswana. Following the departure of Moleta, the board appointed Setshedi Botlhole-Mmopi as Acting Chief Executive. Moleta together with former Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Kutlwano Mswela resigned from Poso House under unclear circumstances''.
Glaser has written for the London Review of Books, New Statesman, and Times Higher Education. She has blogged for The Huffington Post. and is a contributor to The Guardian, where she has written articles on contemporary propaganda, fake authenticity, Astroturf politics, cyber-utopianism, and the ideology of natural childbirth. Glaser is a regular contributor to, producer of, and sometime presenter for BBC Radio 3 and Radio 4.
Columbia High School is a four-year comprehensive regional public high school in Maplewood, New Jersey, which serves students in ninth through twelfth grades, as the lone secondary school of the South Orange-Maplewood School District, which includes Maplewood and South Orange, neighboring communities in Essex County, New Jersey, United States. The school has been accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools Commissions on Elementary Secondary Schools since 1928.
Following the album’s release, in January 2016 the live band embarked on a US tour with the Southern California reggae band Fortunate Youth. Johnny Cosmic, a multi-instrumentalist, made his debut appearance as a member of the Stick Figure live band on this tour playing keyboards, singing backup vocals and playing guitar.
21.10 - 22.10 - 23.10 - 24.10 - 25.10 - 26.10 - 27.10 - 28.10 - 29.10 - 30.10 - 31.10 - 01.11 - 02.11 - 03.11 - 04.11 - 05.11 - 06.11 - 07.11 - 08.11 - 09.11 - 10.11
Authoritarianism is a form o govrenment. It is characterized bi absolute or blind obedience tae authority, as against individual freedom an relatit tae the expectation o unquestionin obedience.
Cornelius Tacitus, Publius (1942) [First published in 1928, reprinting Church and Brodribb's translations for Macmillan & Co.'s 1868 The Agricola and Germany of Tacitus], "Germany and Its Tribes", The Complete Works of Tacitus, New York: Random House .
Kububa kana kupanga (Crave meat, beer, sensual satisfaction, etc). Imbwa dzabuba nhasi: the dogs had nothing to eat today there being no left-overs).
ISO 9362 (also known as SWIFT-BIC, BIC code, SWIFT ID or SWIFT code) is a standard format of Business Identifier Codes approved by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). It is a unique identification code for both financial and non-financial institutions. (When assigned to a non-financial institution, a code may also be known as a Business Entity Identifier or BEI.) These codes are used when transferring money between banks, particularly for international wire transfers, and also for the exchange of other messages between banks. The codes can sometimes be found on account statements.
U.S. War Department. 1880-1901. The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the American Civil War|Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. U.S. Government Printing Office.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist. Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
1911- Haitian Creole: grammar, texts, vocabulary de Robert A. Hall, Jr., with the collaboration of Suzanne Comhaire-Sylvain, H. Ormonde McConnell [et] Alfred Métraux. American Anthropological Association (1953) (Menasha, Wisconsin.)
Breaking Away, 2002: News & Review led 30 weeklies in a national effort to cover the issue of priests who leave the Catholic Church because they can no longer live with the celibacy requirements
Doubles ek 2011 mein bana Malayalam film hain. Yea film India mein Sohan Seenulal ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Mammootty, Nadia Moidu, Tapsee Pannu, Bijukuttan acting kiye the.
(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) The Wikimedia Foundation is planning to upgrade MediaWiki (the software powering this wiki) to its latest version this month. You can help to test it before it is enabled, to avoid disruption and breakage. More information is available in the full announcement. Thank you for your understanding.
FRANKNET FOUNDATION is a non-government organization registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Philippines (SEC Reg. No. I2002-00151) with the vision to serve as a catalyst of educational skills development projects and community services through charitable undertaking in order to change lives for the progress and development of the community as a whole. It would stand as a cornerstone of hope for the poor and the heart of wisdom and knowledge for those who dare strive to excel for their own personal excellence.
Wright made one appearance for an England XI side that played an Anglo-Scots team in the King George V Jubilee Trust Fund friendly held at Highbury on 8 May 1935. A crowd of 8,944 witness the 1–0 defeat for the England side, with Manchester United's George Mutch scoring the only goal of the game.
Ta Please Please Me ny albym liorish y phossan craa-chiaull Sostynagh The Beatles. V'eh nyn chied albym, as haink eh magh ayns mee Vayrnt 1962 lurg speeideilys ny singilyn Please Please Me as Love Me Do. Va hoght jeh ny kiare arraneyn jeig er yn albym screeuit liorish John Lennon as Paul McCartney.
29ves a vis Genver: Lywydh Jacques Chirac a Bow Frynk a dhiskleryas diwedh diblans (fin definitive) orth profyansow frynkek a arvow nuclearek
Louis Jolyon West was appointed by the court in his capacity as a brainwashing expert and worked without fee. After the trial, he wrote a newspaper article asking President Carter to release her from prison.
The relay teams consist of four biathletes. Legs 1 and 2 are done by the women, legs 3 and 4 by the men. The women's legs are 6 km and men's legs are 7.5 km. Every athlete's leg is skied over three laps, with two shooting rounds; one prone, one standing. For every round of five targets there are eight bullets available, though the last three can only be single-loaded manually one at a time from spare round holders or bullets deposited by the competitor into trays or onto the mat at the firing line. If after eight bullets there are still misses, one 150 m penalty loop must be taken for each missed target remaining. The first-leg participants all start at the same time, and as in cross-country skiing relays, every athlete of a team must touch the team's next-leg participant to perform a valid changeover. On the first shooting stage of the first leg, the participant must shoot in the lane corresponding to their bib number (bib #10 shoots at lane #10 regardless of their position in the race), then for the remainder of the relay, the athletes shoot at the lane in the position they arrived (arrive at the range in 5th place, shoot at lane five).
Due to either disuse or criticism, a number of previously offered Creative Commons licenses have since been retired, and are no longer recommended for new works. The retired licenses include all licenses lacking the Attribution element other than CC0, as well as two licenses not allowing at least non-commercial verbatim distribution worldwide:
Sets of indices can be specified by expressions such as "2:4", which evaluates to [2, 3, 4]. For example, a submatrix taken from rows 2 through 4 and columns 3 through 4 can be written as:
EMI Group Limited, an aa kent as EMI Music or simply EMI, wis a Breetish multinaitional muisic recordin an publishin company, an electronics device an seestems manufacturin company, heidquartert in Lunnon, Ingland.
Annie J. Easley Wim Ebbinkhuijsen - COBOL John Presper Eckert - ENIAC Philip-Emeagwali - supercomputing E. Allen Emerson - model checking Douglas Engelbart - tiled windows, hypertext, computer mouse Andrey Ershov Christopher Riche Evans David C. Evans - computer graphics Shimon Even
Gwyn, Julian. Excessive Expectations: Maritime Commerce and the Economic Development of Nova Scotia, 1740-1870 McGill-Queen's U. Pr., 1998. 291 pp.
If you would like to stay informed of future technical upgrades, consider becoming a Tech ambassador and joining the ambassadors mailing list. You will be able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and be notified of important decisions.
Following Huan's death, Dou Wu and the Grand Tutor Chen Fan (陳蕃) (d. 168 AD) attempted a coup d'état against the eunuchs Hou Lan (d. 172 AD), Cao Jie (d. 181 AD), and Wang Fu (王甫). When the plot was uncovered, the eunuchs arrested Empress Dowager Dou (d. 172 AD) and Chen Fan. General Zhang Huan (張奐) favored the eunuchs. He and his troops confronted Dou Wu and his retainers at the palace gate where each side shouted accusations of treason against the other. When the retainers gradually deserted Dou Wu, he was forced to commit suicide.
Johnson continued to add to the Glass House estate during each period of his career. He added a small pavilion with columns by the lake in 1963, an art gallery set into a hillside in 1965, a postmodern sculpture gallery with a glass roof in 1970; a castle-like library with a rounded tower in 1980; a concrete block tower dedicated to his friend Lincoln Kirstein, the founder of the New York City Ballet; a chain-link "ghost house" dedicated to Frank Gehry.
The most tangible results of the first IGF in Athens are a number of so-called Dynamic Coalitions. These coalitions are relatively informal, issue-specific groups consisting of stakeholders that are interested in the particular issue.
On 9 August 2016, Carvajal started in the UEFA Super Cup clash against Sevilla in Trondheim, and scored the final 3–2 in the 119th minute after an individual effort. During the league season, in spite of several physical ailments, he still contributed with 23 games to help the team be crowned champions. After nearly one month on the sidelines, he returned to action just in time to start at the Champions League final on 3 June, which they won for the third time in four years.
E siguiente biaha cu ta menciona Shakespeare den algun registro ta den un pamflet na Londres,skirbi pa Robert Green. Den un articulo for di e edicion di 20 di september,1592 Green ta skirbi tocante Shakespeare : "...There is an upstart Crow, beautified with our feathers, that with his Tiger's heart wrapped in a Player's hide, supposes he is as well able to bombast out a blank verse as the best of you: and being an absolute Johannes factotum, is in his own conceit the only Shake-scene in a country,". Den e articulo aki Green ta referi na Shakespeare como un actor nobato. Ta posibel cu e lo a produci algun obranan ademas di a actua y skirbi algun den e aña aki.
On 14 October 2011 Katsikas signed a four years contract with PAOK, after he was released from Iraklis. On 4 January 2012 he made his debut for the club in 3-1 home win against Levadiakos. He scored his first goal for PAOK against Rapid Wien in August 2012, while his first league goal came into the local derby between PAOK and Aris in a 4-1 win for PAOK. On April 3, 2015 George Katsikas along with Fanis Tzandaris have solved their contracts with PAOK, receiving his payment till the end of the season.
The Use of Asteroids for Determinations of Masses and Other Fundamental Constants in Physical Studies of Minor Planets, Proceedings of IAU Colloq. 12, held in Tucson, AZ, March, 1971, 1971, pp. 13-23. SP 267 URL consultato il 6 marzo 2012.
After retiring from cricket in 2001, Sohail became chief selector for the national team, his tenure ending in January 2004 when he was replaced by former national team wicketkeeper Wasim Bari. He continues to work as a cricket broadcaster. On 4-Feb-2014 he was again appointed as Chief Selector of the national team for the second time.
The final session of parliament started on 6 February and ended on 21 February. Amongst the agenda in the final session is passing the The Lokpal and Lokayuktas Bill, 2013 in tackling corruption and the creation of Telangana.
Wi the release o her third EP, Paradise, Del Rey spawned her seicont tap ten album in the Unitit States, debutin at nummer 10 on the Billboard 200 wi 67,000 copies sauld in its first week. Tae date, her discografie includes twa full-lenth studio albums, three EPs, seiven singles, an aicht muisic videos. A acclaimit muisicker an cinematographer, she haes wan the Q Award for "Best New Thing", a GQ Award for "Woman of the Year", a BRIT Award for "International Breakthrough Act" an anither for "International Pop Female Solo Artist", an a EMA for "Best Alternative Act".
Valdivel Jayalakshmi (born 5 August 1971) is an Indian sprinter. She competed in the women's 4 × 100 metres relay at the 2000 Summer Olympics.
Washington State Databases – Annotated list of searchable databases produced by Washington state agencies and compiled by the Government Documents Roundtable of the American Library Association.
{{infobox tanàna |tanàna= |firenena= Etazonia |faritany=Alaska |velarantany=0.7 |isam-ponina=376 |ben'ny tanàna=Anthony Christianson<ref>Error on call to template:cite web: Parameters url and title must be specified.
Personal information Full name adiat ibrahim Date of birth 20 july 1996 19years place of birth ogun state nigeria professional skills footballer adiat ibrahim was born in ogun in nigeria and he was currently in sunlight fc in nigeria and he's last born of his family he attending secondary school level and he was picked as inter class during the school inter class and adiat ibrahim was popular know as indian boi when he was in school and he also represent him school started from primary school he was talented player and he move on to secondary school as well he have a lot of skill, dibble, the play of style is different for ronald and messi. adiat ibrahim {popular know as indian boi} he move on to arsenal 1 fc at capital of oyo state which is ibadan he want there for ibadan tournament that is where he see a lot of challenge and during the tournament he make are team debut over a victory by beating youngstar fc and indian boi was substitution in 75 minute by make the games end up with 2 2 draw but in that tournament arsenal 1 fc over a victory by take 3rd position. He did well at that tournament and he make a victory by collecting silver medal
The Immigrant ek 2013 mein bana English, Polish, Latin film hain. Yea film USA mein James Gray ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Marion Cotillard, Joaquin Phoenix, Jeremy Renner, Dagmara Dominczyk acting kiye the.
Lurg eash Cheltiagh (lurg m. 450 RC) as eash Raueagh (9 RC - m. 430 BNJ), va bunneydys ny h-Ungaar currit sheese 'sy 9-oo eash yeianagh liorish y reilleyder Ungaaragh Árpád, as va'n yn aa-oe echey, Steaon I ny h-Ungaar, crooinit lesh crooin va shiaullit veih'n Phaab 'sy vlein 1000 BNJ. Hannee yn reeriaght shen ayn er feie 946 bleeantyn, as dy mennick v'ee coontit myr nane jeh ny buill chultooragh jeh'n Theihll Heear. Myr eiyrtys jeh Cah Mohács, va ayrn jeh'n thalloo eck caillt dys ny Turkee, as lurg shen v'ee currit stiagh ayns Reeriaght Habsburg, as lurg shen ren ee jannoo seose lieh jeh'n reeriaght Austeyragh-Ungaaragh ghooblit.
Nigba ti Igbimo Olimpiki Akariaye fi expressed its concern over the progress of construction work of the new Olympic venues, a new Organizing Committee was formed in 2000 under President Gianna Angelopoulos-Daskalaki. In the years leading up to the Games, Athens was transformed into a city that used state-of-the-art technology in transportation and urban development. Some of the most modern sporting venues in the world at the time were built to host the 2004 Olympic Games.
Unfortunately, this reckless manner of dealing with evidence is typical of 1421, vitiating all its extraordinary claims: the voyages it describes never took place, Chinese information never reached Prince Henry and Columbus, and there is no evidence of the Ming fleets in newly discovered lands. The fundamental assumption of the book—that the Yongle Emperor dispatched the Ming fleets because he had a "grand plan", a vision of charting the world and creating a maritime empire spanning the oceans—is simply asserted by Menzies without a shred of proof ... The reasoning of 1421 is inexorably circular, its evidence spurious, its research derisory, its borrowings unacknowledged, its citations slipshod, and its assertions preposterous ... Examination of the book's central claims reveals they are uniformly without substance.
Nicholas Gage (born Nikola Gatzoyiannis July 23, 1939 in the village of Lia in Epirus, Greece) is a Greek American author and investigative journalist.
Space: the final frontier. These are the voyages of the starship Enterprise. Its five-year mission: to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations, to boldly go where no man has gone before.
The Wikimedia Foundation, at the direction of the Board of Trustees, will be holding a vote to determine whether members of the community support the creation and usage of an opt-in personal image filter, which would allow readers to voluntarily screen particular types of images strictly for their own account.
Soggin was born on 10 March 1926. He took his first degrees in law at the Sapienza University of Rome and in theology at the Waldensian Theological Seminary in Rome.
A simplification for many binary addition problems is the Long Carry Method or Brookhouse Method of Binary Addition. This method is generally useful in any binary addition where one of the numbers has a long string of “1” digits. For example the following large binary numbers can be added in two simple steps without multiple carries from one place to the next.
RISCOS Ltd was formed to continue end-user-focused development of RISC OS after the de-listing of Acorn Computers, following its purchase by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in order to benefit from the shareholding that Acorn held in ARM Ltd. In March 1999, RISCOS Ltd obtained exclusive rights to develop and sell RISC OS 4 for the desktop market from Element 14. A few weeks later Pace purchased Acorn's Cambridge headquarters and staff for £200,000 and then continued to develop its own, in-house version of RISC OS, primarily for set-top boxes and other embedded devices.
Reproduction Lightning rifles are still manufactured today by companies such as Uberti, Taurus, and Pedersoli for hunting, historical reenactment, and competition purposes such as Cowboy Action Shooting in calibers such as .38 Special/.357 Magnum, .44-40, and .45 Colt. Of these calibers, only the .44-40 was offered in the Lightning when it was originally produced by Colt.
In October 1962, Panchayat elections were held in Goa, followed by assembly elections in December 1962. On 16 January 1967, a referendum was held in which the people of Goa voted against merger with Maharashtra. Portugal recognised Goa's accession into the Indian union only in 1974. In 1987, Goa was separated from Daman and Diu and made a full-fledged state. Daman and Diu continued as a new Union Territory.
Language links in the sidebar are going to come from Wikidata in addition to the ones in the wiki text. To edit them, scroll to the bottom of the language links, and click edit. You no longer need to maintain these links by hand in the wiki text of the article.
The works that Cousteau produced also created a new kind of scientific communication that caused some criticism by formal academics. The so-called divulgationisme, a simple comprehensible form of sharing scientific concepts, was soon used for other disciplines too and became one of the most important and appreciated characteristics of modern TV broadcasting. The documentary information found in Cousteau's words a linear scheme to follow.
Loper JC (1968). “Histidinol dehydrogenase from Salmonella typhimurium Crystallization and composition studies”. J. Biol. Chem. 243: 3264–72. PMID 4872176.
Kianggl a wah ignaitebl wik we embed ina wax ar waneda flamebl salid sobstans laka talo fi provaid lait, ah ina som kies, friegrant. Ikiah aalso yuuz fi provaid iit, ar yuuz az metod fi kip taim.
The maist important event that taks place in Zegama ivery year is the Zegama-Aizkorri Alpine Marathon [1], pairt o the Skyrunner World Series [2], which is the alpine marathon warld championship.
Stevenson's interest in electronic graphite loons production began in th' early 2000s, when he gart his first release oan th' social media website Newgrounds. He was 15–16 years auld when he created his first vocal track. He later rose tae prominence ben th' YouTube-based graphite loons community Liquicity, whaur Cloudhead, a body ay his earliest tracks as stan sb, was featured. which has since gained ower 300,000 plays oan SoundCloud.
The Sumy Oblast is situatit in the northeastren pairt o Ukraine. The aurie o the oblast' (23,800 km²), comprises aboot 3,95% o the total aurie o the kintra.
Cochrane has generously agreed to give free, full-access accounts to medical editors. Individual access would otherwise cost between $300 and $800 per account.
In 2015, the News & Review led a nationwide project, Letters to the Future, asking authors, artists, scientists and other to write to future generations predicting the success or failure of the 2015 U.N. Climate Talks in Paris. Hundreds of letters were collected and presented to diplomats present in Paris, including letters penned by Michael Pollan, Jane Smiley, Stephen Robinson, Aisha Kahlil, T. C. Boyle, Kim Stanley Robinson, Annie Leonard, Roxana Barry Robinson, Jack Miles, Pam Houston, Geraldine Brooks (writer), Rebecca Goldstein, Lois Wolk, Harry Reid, Brent Bourgeois and others.
On October 27, 2011, it was announced that Kennedy had been diagnosed with early-stage Parkinson's Disease and would be leaving the team to undergo treatment. Kennedy said he planned to return following treatment and temporarily put Associate Coach Glynn Cyprien in charge of the team.
During the mid-1940s, a number of new political parties emerged in Goa, each having a conflicting agenda and perspective in relation to achieving Goan independence and autonomy. These political parties advocated for vastly different policies including Goa's merger with Maharashtra state, Goa's merger with the southern Indian state of Karnataka, independent statehood for Goa and autonomy within Portuguese rule.प्रारूप:Citation needed
Maisles, an aa cried the marls is a heichly contagious infection caused bi the maisles virus. Ineetial signs an seemptoms teepically include fiver, eften greater nor 40 °C (104.0 °F), coch, runny neb, an inflamed een. Twa or three days efter the stairt o seemptoms, smaw white spots mey form inside the mooth, kent as Koplik's spats. A reid, flat rash that uisually stairts on the face an then spreads tae the rest o the bouk teepically begins three tae five days efter the stairt o seemptoms. Seemptoms uisually develop 10–12 days efter exposur tae an infectit person an last 7–10 days. Complications occur in aboot 30% an mey include diarrhea, blindness, inflammation o the harn, an pneumonia amang ithers. Rubella (German maisles) an roseola are different diseases.
Ubunyamabanga, bufite icyicaro ku biro by'Umuryango w'Abibumbye biri i Jeneve mu Busuwisi, assists and coordinates the work of the MAG, Itsindangishwanama rigizwe n'abantu b'ingeri zinyuranye bashishikajwe n'iki kibazo. The Ubunyamabanga is headed by Markus Kummer with the designation of Executive Coordinator and Chengetai Masango is Programme and Technology Manager. The Ubunyamabanga also hosts fellowships., Markus Kummer has also been involved with the WGIG as its Executive Coordinator of the Ubunyamabanga.
In the origins, the village of Bussy appeared in 841 under the Roman name of Villa Buxido. In 855 the territory formed a large parish under the protection of Saint-Georges. Nevertheless, the full name of Bussy-Saint-Georges only appeared in the 13th century. The name of Bussy comes from Buscus because of the city's native environment initially composed of woods and lots of groves. In the Middle Ages, Bussy-Saint-Martin et Bussy-Saint-Georges was unified under a unique landlord authority, the lords of Bussy. Here is the list of the successive lords of Bussy:
By late March 2004, some Olympic projects were still behind schedule, and Greek authorities announced that a roof it had initially proposed as an optional, non-vital addition to the Aquatics Center would no longer be built. The main Olympic Stadium, the designated facility for the opening and closing ceremonies, was completed only two months before the games opened. This stadium was completed with a retractable glass roof designed by Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava. The same architect also designed the Velodrome and other facilities.
Last month, we asked for community feedback on a proposal to change the structure of WMF grant programs. Thanks to the 200+ people who participated! A report on what we learned and changed based on this consultation is now available.
Chased ek 2009 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein William Branden Blinn ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Adam Kalesperis, Gregg Rogen, Carlos Salas, James J. Mercado acting kiye the.
1937. The Amberley Papers: The Letters and Diaries of Lord and Lady Amberley, med Patricia Russell, 2 bind, London: Leonard & Virginia Woolf at the Hogarth Press.
In 1962 she marriet Jack Anderson, a Glaega (subsequently an aw Canada an Lunnon)-based airchitect an lecturer, an a son David wis born twa years later. Awtho expectin tae be dismissed, she continued tae appear on screen amaist till the birth (includin ane interview conductit on a ruif), an wis back in the studio efterwairds athin sax weeks.
Teresa Wright (1918-2005, class of 1938), Academy Award-winning actress whose films include Mrs. Miniver, Shadow of a Doubt, and The Pride of the Yankees.
The tiger (Panthera tigris) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to 3.3 metres (11 ft) and weighing up to 306 kg (675 lb).
In 1995, she marriet her coach Bart Van Roost, wi whom she haes a dochter, an played unner the name Dominique Van Roost till their divorce in 2003.
The Harrell Formation was first described by Charles Butts in 1918. Hasson and Dennison (1978) state "The Harrell Shale consists of very dark gray, thinly laminated, platy- to sheety-weathering shale underlain in certain areas by the grayish black shale of the Burket Member."
Iinqanawa ezinkulu zingadibana nomlambo Big ocean ships can get up the river until Manaus, which is almost 1500 kilometers from its mouth. Smaller ocean ships of 3,000 tons and 7.9 m (26 ft) draft can reach as far as Iquitos in Peru, 3,700 km (2,300 miles) from the sea. Smaller riverboats can reach 780 km (486 mi) higher as far as Actual Point. Beyond that, small boats frequently go up to the Pogo Ode Escherichia's, just above Actual Point.
Holland, Bernard. 2001. "Stravinsky, a Rare Bird Amid the Palms: A Composer in California, at Ease if Not at Home", The New York Times (11 March).
The aurie o the canton o Geneva is 282 square kilometers (108.9 sq mi). The canton is surroondit on amaist aw sides bi Fraunce an bordered bi the Swiss canton o Vaud on northeast. The adjoinin French départements are Ain (tae the north) an Haute-Savoie (tae the sooth an east). The current bundaries o the canton wur established in 1815.
The film was scheduled to start shooting in September 2016, but it had to be postponed due to Russia's defense ministry not issuing a permit for the shoot in the country, which would run for about a month. According to The Hollywood Reporter, Russia's defense ministry originally promised cooperation with the crew, wanting to provide realism expertise to the movie. But later it reportedly grew concerned about granting access to classified information and locations. On 7 February 2017, ScreenDaily.com reported that shooting was scheduled to start in April.
Martin Haspelmath: The European Linguistic Area: Standard Average European. En: Martin Haspelmath et al. (ed.): Language Typology and Language Universals. Tom 1, de Gruyter, Berlin 2001, p. 1492–1510.
Fallen ek 1998 mein bana Assyrian Neo-Aramaic, English, Syriac film hain. Yea film USA mein Gregory Hoblit ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz acting kiye the.
Naritiv ar tuori a heni ripuot bout ivent we kanek, riil ar imajineri, prizent ina siikuens a wod we rait ar spiik, an/ar stil ar muuvin himij.
Ayns baagh-oaylleeaght, ta cooitinagh beishteigagh ny strughtoor yl-vrattagh er çheumooie epiderm kuse dy veishteigyn. Dy cadjin, t'ad ec Nematoida as arthropodyn. Ta cooitinagh arthropodagh creoiaghey myr ushylagh mooie.
Aadhi Haqeeqat, Aadha Fasana ek 1990 mein bana Hindi, English film hain. Yea film India mein Dilip Ghosh ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein N/A acting kiye the.
WGN-TV would enter into a programming arrangement with independent station WCIU-TV (channel 26) in July 1999 for that station to carry select White Sox, Chicago Bulls and Chicago Cubs games within the Chicago market that WGN is under contract to produce and air; the agreement was the result of network affiliation contracts with WGN-TV (first with The WB at the time the WCIU deal was made, and now with The CW) limit the number of programming preemptions allowed each year, as well as due to rights restrictions put in place by the National Basketball Association which limit the number of Bulls telecasts aired on WGN's national superstation feed (now known as WGN America) to only fifteen games per season.
She was born in 19 August 1939, the daughter of Curt Carlson, who founded the company in 1938. She received a bachelor's degree from Smith College in 1961.
Portrait of Igor Stravinsky conducting – A series of images from the UBC Library Digital Collections depicting the composer rehearsing with the New York Philharmonic.
From the change log, other functions are accessible in most wikis: the revision history shows previous page versions and the diff feature highlights the changes between two revisions. Using the revision history, an editor can view and restore a previous version of the article. The diff feature can be used to decide whether or not this is necessary. A regular wiki user can view the diff of an edit listed on the "Recent Changes" page and, if it is an unacceptable edit, consult the history, restoring a previous revision; this process is more or less streamlined, depending on the wiki software used.
At the time Page conceived of BackRub, the Web comprised an estimated 10 million documents, with an untold number of links between them. The computing resources required to crawl such a beast were well beyond the usual bounds of a student project. Unaware of exactly what he was getting into, Page began building out his crawler. The idea's complexity and scale lured Brin to the job. A polymath who had jumped from project to project without settling on a thesis topic, he found the premise behind BackRub fascinating. "I talked to lots of research groups" around the school, Brin recalls, "and this was the most exciting project, both because it tackled the Web, which represents human knowledge, and because I liked Larry."
Rêve de la Mère: a statue erected in 2010 dedicated to the Boat people and refugees from the Vietnam War. Bussy-Saint-Georges is home to a significant Vietnamese population, and the statue is a symbol for Vietnamese refugees seeing France as a free nation and is a reminder for French-born Vietnamese of their ancestral roots and culture.
Taunton studiet actin at the Centro de Educación Artística o Televisa for ower 3 years. She came tae Mexico seekin for an opportunity in 1988 an became an instant hit, haein notable roles in the maist important soap operas o Televisa. She haes made ower a hunder TV commercials throughoot her career, some being the spokeswumman o important brands such as Calvin Klein Latin America, Marinela (Bimbo), Scribe (notenooks) an magazines such as Vogue an Hola Mexico. She datit Diego Schoening, who wantit an helped her tae become a member o Timbiriche but her rivalry wi Paulina Rubio wis stranger an the producers decidit tae keep Paulina an chuise Thalía instead, moreower Sussan haes performit in mony important plays mainly in Mexico an some in Chile, being the first Chilean actress tae be nominatit for a Latin Grammy in 1995.
Wikipedia tries to address the problem of systemic bias, and to deal with zealous editors who seek to influence the presentation of an article in a biased way, by insisting on a neutral point of view. The English-language Wikipedia has introduced a scale against which the quality of articles is judged; other editions have also adopted this. Roughly 1200 have passed a rigorous set of criteria to reach the highest rank, "featured article" status; such articles are intended to provide a thorough, well-written coverage of their topic, and be supported by many references to peer-reviewed publications.
Farrington, D. P. (2000a) Adolescent violence: Findings and implications from the Cambridge Study. In Boswell, G. (Ed.) Violent Children and Adolescents: Asking the Question Why. London: Whurr (pp. 19-35).
Carrot cake e kgona go jewa e le nosi, mme go botlhoko kgotsa go tlwaelesegile thata ka bosweu jo bo tshelwang fa go dimo icing kana cream cheese icing and walnuts, e kgabetleletswe.e tlotswa thata ka icing sugar marzipan E dirilwe go tshwana le carrot. Carrot cake e tlwaelesegile thata ka loaf
Casey Jones ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Polaris Banks ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Hilarion Banks, Robbie Rist, Moira Wilson, Brian Villalobos acting kiye the.
Even though Page's new model was unsustainable and led to disgruntlement among the affected employees, his issue with engineers being managed by non-engineering staff gained traction more broadly. Eventually, the practice of only instating engineers into the management roles of engineering teams was established as a standard across Silicon Valley.
The Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees is the ultimate governing authority of the Wikimedia Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization registered in the United States. The Wikimedia Foundation manages many diverse projects such as Wikipedia and Commons.
A Cube of Sugar ek 2011 mein bana Persian film hain. Yea film Iran mein Reza Mirkarimi ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Reza Kianian, Negar Javaherian, Farhad Aslani, Saeed Poursamimi acting kiye the.
The Nationalist Movements in Azarbaijan and Kurdistan , 1941-1946, erschienen in A Century of Revolution, editiert von John Foran, Univ. of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis 1994.
Zenobia the Iberian (Georgie: ზენობია) (fl. 1st century) wis a ryal princess o the Pharnavazid dynasty o the Kinrick o Iberia who wis a Queen o Armenie frae 51 tae 53 an 54 tae 55 durin the reign o her husband, Keeng Rhadamistus.
SBI Route 72 originally ran from Lanark to Starks. It was extended east in 1937 and 1938 to East Dundee, and then to Chicago. In 1968, the designation of IL 72 was truncated back to IL 43 (Harlem Avenue), lopping off 10.5 miles (16.9 km). In 1982, it was shortened again, this time to Illinois Route 73.
In July 2017, M. Hugues Rondeau, who has been the mayor from 1998 until 2014, was considered as guilty by French justice for illegal taking of interest and condemned to six months of suspended prison, payment of 60.000 euros for damage and interest, and ineligibility for five years .
Function Summary : Interwiki, Internationalization by removing chaos in Babel-Category so it can be used properly and easy. Double redirects will be added shortly
Àtụ:Refimprovesect Ward Cunningham, and co-author Bo Leuf, in their book The Wiki Way: Quick Collaboration on the Web described the essence of the Wiki concept as follows:
Due to Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and the ensuing disruptive guerrilla fighting, Nasrat Parsa and his family left Afghanistan in 1981 for Pakistan and subsequently to India. They took residence in the capital city of New Delhi, a popular destination for most Afghan war civilians. There the 12 year old émigré was said to delve into studying music to find comfort from the negative psychological effects of the war. He attended the school of music under the apprenticeship of classic Indian singer Daish Pandi. Although the classical music of Afghanistan and Indian classical music differ considerably in tone and rhythm, the training nonetheless gave Nasrat a foundation to prepare his voice and gave encouragement to the amateur to pursue his interest professionally. He also studied with Ustad Monawar Ali Khan, a leading authority in certain Indian music styles who taught him details of musical instruments and notes. He became one of the few Afghan singers who had a formal training in classical music. It was these lessons that would prepare him for performing the ghazals that he later became known for in Europe.
A Summer's Tale ek 1996 mein bana French film hain. Yea film France mein Éric Rohmer ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Melvil Poupaud, Amanda Langlet, Gwenaëlle Simon, Aurelia Nolin acting kiye the.
The aim is to link the national authority files (such as the German Name Authority File) to a single virtual authority file. In this file, identical records from the different data sets are linked together. A VIAF record receives a standard data number, contains the primary "see" and "see also" records from the original records, and refers to the original authority records. The data are made available online and are available for research and data exchange and sharing. Reciprocal updating uses the Open Archives Initiative protocol.
Chisimba chebere (Short lived activity). Tsimbe dzinoita chisimba chebere pakutangwa kwehoka: lazy people exert themselves at the beginning of a hoeing-bee. Kune zita remhuri rinonzi Mahoka.
It is locatit on the sooth-wastren banks o the Paraná River atween the courses o the Arroyo Pavón an the Arroyo del Medio, aboot 214 km sooth frae the provincial caipital, the ceety o Santa Fe, an 50 km frae Rosario. It haes a population o mair than 43,000 inhabitants as per the 2001 census [INDEC].
Aa Bb BHbh Cc Dd DLdl Ee Ff Gg Hh HHhh HLhl Ii Jj Kk KHkh KLkl Ll Mm Nn NGng NYny Oo Pp PHph Qq Ss Tt THth TJtj TJHtjh TLHtlh TSts TSHtsh Uu Vv Ww Xx Yy Zz
«Sit with the Guru» (1968), «Black Butter» (1968), «Nightmare of Percussion» (1968), «They Saw the Fat One Coming» (1968), «An Angry Young Man» (1968) av Strawberry Alarm Clock.
Lusaka wis the site o a veelage named efter its heidman Lusakasa, which, accordin tae history, wis locatit at Manda Hill, near whaur the Zambie's Naitional Assembly biggin nou staunds. In the Nyanja leid, Manda means graveyard. The aurie wis expandit bi European (mainly Breetish) settlers in 1905 wi the biggin o the railway.
The designs of Barron and Chubb were based on the use of movable levers, but Joseph Bramah, a prolific inventor, developed an alternative method in 1784. His lock used a cylindrical key with precise notches along the surface; these moved the metal slides that impeded the turning of the bolt into an exact alignment, allowing the lock to open. The lock was at the limits of the precision manufacturing capabilities of the time and was said by its inventor to be unpickable. In the same year Bramah started the Bramah Locks company at 124 Piccadilly, and displayed the "Challenge Lock" in the window of his shop from 1790, challenging "...the artist who can make an instrument that will pick or open this lock" for the reward of £200. The challenge stood for over 67 years until, at the Great Exhibition of 1851, the American locksmith Alfred Charles Hobbs was able to open the lock and, following some argument about the circumstances under which he had opened it, was awarded the prize. Hobbs' attempt required some 51 hours, spread over 16 days.
Page and Brin used the former's basic HTML programming skills to set up a simple search page for users, as they did not have a web page developer to create anything visually elaborate. They also began using any computer part they could find to assemble the necessary computing power to handle searches by multiple users. As their search engine grew in popularity among Stanford users, it required additional servers to process the queries. In August 1996, the initial version of Google, still on the Stanford University website, was made available to Internet users.
Keith (Scots Gaelic: Baile Chèith, or Cèith Mhaol Rubha (archaic)) is a smaw toun in the northeast o Scotland wi aboot 4,500 indwallers. It is pairt o the Moray cooncil aurie but till 1975 wis in Banffshire.
Herschel, C, The Two Books on The Water Supply of the City of Rome of Frontinus, (trans with explanatory chapters) New England Water Works Association (1973).
Linkin Park hasai ona album 3 maka tui mai: "Hybrid Theory", "Meteora" ho "Minutes to Midnight". Sira mos produce ona "Live in Texas", "Reanimation" no "Collision Course" ho mos "Hybrid Theory EP". Linkin Park mos suksesu liu ho haklekar sira nia kansaun hanesan Crawling, Numb, In the End, Somewhere I Belong no What I´ve Done.
V'ad shoh ymmydit ayns Ard-reihyssyn ny bleeaney 1867, 1875, as 1881. Shoh ny rheynnyn-reihys bunneydagh fo Slattys Reihyssyn da'n Chiare as Feed, as y slattys cur lesh reihyssyn da'n Thie da'n chied cheayrt.
Makarios III (August 13, 1913 – August 3, 1977) je Aare orile-ede Kíprù tele. He served as the first President of the Republic of Cyprus from 1960–1974 and 1974–1977.
Ayns 2001, ghow y boayl tailley-lhaih caslys-skeealyn eddyr-voggyl Cool Beans World toshiaght erreish da troddan soilsheydys enney ard, goaill stiagh soilsheenaghey clout lhean. Chossyn eh aundyr Internet Magazine Boayl y Vee ayns Jerrey Fouyir 2001. Adsyn screeu da, v'ad goaill stiagh (chammah as sleih elley) crootee caslys-skeealyn Pat Mills, Simon Bisley, John Bolton as Kevin O'Neill, as y screeudeyrClive Barker. Va'n lught goaill stiagh Scarlet Traces as Marshal Law.
Williams, Tami Michelle (2007). University of California Los Angeles, ed. "Beyond Impressions: The Life and Films of Germaine Dulac from Aesthetics to Politics". p. 366.
Johnson, Kevin P.; de Kort, Selvino; Dinwoodey, Karen, Mateman, A. C.; ten Cate, Carel; Lessells, C. M. & Clayton, Dale H. (2001): A molecular phylogeny of the dove genera Streptopelia and Columba. Auk 118(4): 874-887. PDF fulltext
Wainwright, Raymond P.; Wesley F. Buchele; Stephen J. Marley; William I. Baldwin (1983). "A Variable Approach-Angle Moldboard Plow". Transactions of the ASAE. 26 (2): 392–396. Naala idi Pebrero 14, 2013.
Brock, Thomas D. (August 1, 1997). "The Value of Basic Research: Discovery of Thermus aquaticus and Other Extreme Thermophiles". Genetics 146 (4): 1207–10. PMC 1208068. PMID 9258667.
Mabel - Macksburg - Madras - Malin - Manning - Manzanita - Mapleton - Marcola - Marion - Marion Forks - Marquam - Maupin - Mayger - Mayville - Maywood Park - McCredie Springs - McDermitt - McKenzie Bridge - McMinnville - McNary - Meacham - Medford - Medical Springs - Mehama - Merlin - Merrill - Metolius - MetzgerCitakan:GR* - Midland - Mikkalo - Mill City - Millersburg - Millican - Milo - Milton-Freewater - Milwaukie - Minam - Minerva - Mission - Mist - Mitchell - Modoc Point - Mohawk - Mohler - Molalla - Monitor - Monmouth - Monroe - Monument - Moro - Mosier - Mt. Angel - Mount Hood - Mount Vernon - Mulino - Murphy - Myrtle Creek - Myrtle Point
Wikipedia has spawned several sister projects. The first, "In Memoriam: 11 Septemba Wiki", created in Ọktoba 2002, detailed the 11 Septemba 2001 attacks; this project was closed in Ọktoba 2006. Wiktionary, a dictionary project, was launched in Disemba 2002; Wikiquote, a collection of quotations, a week after Wikimedia launched, and Wikibooks, a collection of collaboratively-written free books, the next month. Wikimedia has since started a number of other projects.
IALI NGO was authorised by Terminologist Charles Muwanga topost this article from his Luganda scientific works on Luganda wikipedia for public consumption.
Sulentic, Jack W., and William G. Tifft, "The Revised New General Catalogue of Nonstellar Astronomical Objects (RNGC)". Tucson, Arizona:University of Arizona Press, 1973. (4016,0)
de'i lo 1176moi fi'o jamna la'o zoi. Wars of the Guelphs and Ghilbellines zoi. la'o zoi. Lombard League zoi. cu gunta fi'o terji'a la'o zoi. Holy Roman Empire zoi. .i
I James VI and I no rainy. Ny vadiny dia Henrietta Maria of France. Ny zanany dia Charles II of England, Mary, Princess Royal and Princess of Orange, James VII and II, Elizabeth Stuart, Princess Anne of England, Henry Stuart, Duke of Gloucester, Princess Henrietta of England.
For a graphical version of this list, see list of countries by population (graphical). See also List of sovereign states and dependent territories by population density and the list of regional organizations by population.
(Kiingereza) The Tragical History of Dr. Faustus, New York City, January 8, 1937 Production notebook, Conductor's Score, and related documents from the digital collection The New Deal Stage at the Library of Congress. Retrieved on 8/25/2009
A-dhia 1994, yma governans gorth-ahel, h.y. an Kuntelles Kenedhlek Afrikek (ANC) neb a omladho erbydn wovernans apartheid an dus wydn. Nelson Mandela veu kensa lewyth an repoblek wosa devedhyans gwerynieth. Ev a lewya an repoblek dres pemp bledhen yn udnyk; Thabo Mbeki a'y sywyas a-dhia 1999 bys 2008. Jacob Zuma a dhysputyas lywyans an ANC, ha wosa budhugoleth Zuma, an ANC a wovydnas Mbeki dhe asa y soodh. In mis Gwyngala 2008, Kgalema Motlanthe a veu tressa lewyth an repoblek; cothman Zuma ywa. Wosa dewysyans 2009, Zuma a veu peswara lewyth an repoblek in mis Me 2009.
Marie Anne de La Trémoille, Princesse des Ursins (1642 – December 5 1722) wis a French noblewoman born intae the La Trémoille faimily, she mairit in Februar 1675 she mairit Flavio Orsini (1620-1698) Prince Orsini, head o the Hoose o Orsini, Prince o Nerola an Duke o Bracciano, but known as the Prince Orsini. As a result o the mairiage shge wis known as the Princesse des Ursins in Fraunce, an as Princesa de los Ursinos in Spain. She is known for her being the de facto ruler o Spain frae 1701 until 1714 as a lady-in-waiting tae Queen Maria Luisa she also haed great influence over the queen. She wis also a friend o Madame de Maintenon. She wis also present at the birth o The Prince o Asturias in 1707
NaDhariusi muMedhe wakatora umambo, aane makore anoda kuita makumi matanhatu nemairi ousharuka: Darius the Mede took over the kingdom, at the age of sixty-two (Daniel 5:, Bhaibheri reChiNdau).
Josephine Baker was born Freda Josephine McDonald in St. Louis, Missouri, the daughter of Carrie McDonald. Her estate identifies vaudeville drummer Eddie Carson as her natural father; Carson abandoned Baker and her mother. Carrie and Eddie had a song-and-dance act, playing wherever they could get work, and when Josephine was about a year old they began to carry her onstage occasionally during their finale. Josephine was always poorly dressed and hungry, and her playground became the yards of Union Station. From this she developed her street smarts. When Baker was eight she began working as a live-in domestic for white families in St. Louis. She was sent to work for a woman who abused her, burning Baker's hands when she put too much soap in the laundry.
Dog × Police: The K-9 Force ek 2011 mein bana Japanese film hain. Yea film Japan mein Go Shichitaka ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Hayato Ichihara, Erika Toda, Shin'nosuke Abe, Kazuyuki Aijima acting kiye the.
The glycerol-3-phosphate shuttle is a mechanism that regenerates NAD+ from NADH, a by-product of glycolysis. Its importance in transporting reducing equivalents is secondary to the malate-aspartate shuttle.
Pentorr yw hanow bagas ilow ynwedh. I a sen ilow gernewek. Pentorr yw aga hanow drefenn eseli an band oll dhe driga yn Penntorr po Lannales.
Some siblings of the characters shown here have been left out for clarity; these include Chitrāngada, the eldest brother of Vichitravirya. Vidura, half-brother to Dhritarashtra and Pandu.
Internetaleph. Fully bilingual (English/Spanish) portal dedicated to Jorge Luis Borges. Links, recent news, reading suggestions and an introduction for beginners.
The three species in Otospermophilus are listed below. These are the same species that were previously grouped in the subgenus Otospermophilus.
They are Marines. They don't have a nickname and they don't need one. They get their basic training in a Marine atmosphere at a Marine post. They inherit the traditions of Marines. They are Marines. Marines int. N'o deus lesanv ebet ha n'o deus ket ezhomm unan. O gourdoniñ diazez a resevont en un aergelc'h Marine en ul lec'h Marine. Hengounioù ar Marines o deus da hêrezh. Marines int.
KuEnglish shoko rokuti polyhedron rinobva pamashoko anoti poly rinoreva many, uye hedron rinoreva base, chair or face. Saka zvichibatanidzwa zvoreva many faces or many bases.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 23,082 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 175.29 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 2203.
In December 1947, independent India and Portugal established diplomatic ties. In January 1948, Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru met the Portuguese consul and raised the issue of Goa's integration into the Indian Union. The Portuguese, who valued their strategic Indian colonial outposts, were unwilling to negotiate and by 1948, the Goan anti-colonial movement had virtually disbanded.प्रारूप:Citation needed
Alipoulizwa kuhusu toleo la Carey, Joe Elliott aliliambia gazeti la Las Vegas Sun, kuwa, nadhani amefanya kazi nzuri, ameweza kupangilia vizuri lakini si kama toleo lile toleo la rok Akiongelea kuhusu sauti ya Carey mwishoni mwa wimbo huu amesema sauti ya Carey inaweza kufanana na ile ya Tom Waits. A number of reviews were positive, Rolling Stone akiuelezea wimbo huu, anaema unamvuto wa ajabu. " Phil Collen praised Carey's cover as a "genuine version of our song" and defended it from Def Leppard's more critical fans: "The fans really get it wrong sometimes. She's on our side and it's an honour she's done it. Really, that's the only way we're getting played." Carey's version was number 24 on VH1's "Least Metal Moments"—in a segment subtitled "Bringin' On the Headache"—because many metal fans and musicians didn't like the remake. Bill Lamb of About.com ranked it at number 2 on his list of "Top 5 R&B/Pop Crossover Cover Songs" and said Carey's version is "superior to the original."
A number of NFL teams and their broadcasting departments have teamed up with CBS Sports to produce games, and those teams include (as of 2011) the San Diego Chargers (originating stations KCBS-TV Los Angeles and KFMB-TV San Diego), New York Jets (WCBS-TV New York), and Green Bay Packers (WGBA-TV Green Bay and co-flagship WTMJ-TV Milwaukee; the Packers coverage currently uses the NBC graphics package due to both stations being NBC affiliates after the contract left former CBS O&O WFRV-TV, but continues to use a CBS technical and announcing team).
Manangazira kana maminimini (Extraordinary or ominous event). Ava manangazira makumbo ezongororo: it is as extraordinary as the legs of a millipede!
She sorçh dy ghreasan as eaghtyr rea co-chruinnagh echey dy chummal seose reddyn son taishbyney, tashtey, ny stiurey eh boayrd. Lhisagh yn eaghtyr y ve shickyr as, er e hon shen, s'mennick ta'n eaghtyr cummaltit seose liorish colloo, bun, ny tree cassyn collooagh.
The most frequently occurring number in a list is called the mode. For example, the mode of the list (1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4) is 3. The mode is not necessarily uniquely defined; for example, the list (1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 5) has the two modes 2 and 3. The mode is more meaningful and potentially useful if there are many numbers in the list, and the frequency of the numbers progresses smoothly (e.g., if out of a group of 1,000 people, 30 people weigh 61 kg, 32 weigh 62 kg, 29 weigh 63 kg, and all the other possible weights occur less frequently, then 62 kg is the mode).
BackRub already exhibited the rudimentary functions and characteristics of a search engine: a query input was entered and it provided a list of backlinks ranked by importance. Page recalled: "We realized that we had a querying tool. It gave you a good overall ranking of pages and ordering of follow-up pages." Page said that in mid-1998 they finally realized the further potential of their project: "Pretty soon, we had 10,000 searches a day. And we figured, maybe this is really real."
Sum 41 arr a Canadean punk band consistet o Deryck Whibley (lead vocals, rhithim guitar), Tom Thacker (lead guitar, backing vocals), Jason "Cone" McCaslin (bass guitar, backing vocals) an Steve Jocz (drums). They hae releast five albums: All Killer No Filler (2001), Does This Look Infected? (2002), Chuck (2004), Underclass Hero (2007) an Screaming Bloody Murder (2011). The nou, Sum 41 arr on a toor; they regularrli plae oer 300 times a year.
Wikipedia's content policies and sub-projects set up by contributors seek to address these concerns. Several scholarly studies have concluded that vandalism is generally short-lived, and that Wikipedia is roughly as accurate as other online encyclopedias.
Gaskell, Mark. "Strategies for Off-Season Blueberry Production on Coastal California Small Farms," an article[4] in "Central Coast Agriculture Highlights" a newsletter published by the University of California Cooperative Extension, February 2006 issue, page 2, accessed August 24, 2006.
Important personalities in the history o Cuba wur born or livit in Artemisa. Amang them Magdalena Peñaredonda, a poetess an journalist, appointed as caiptain o rebel forces durin the war o unthirldom, Faither Guillermo González Arocha, born in Regla, but whose significant contribution tae the unthirldom o Cuba wis carriet oot while a priest in Artemisa, is considered an adoptit son o the ceety. This priest foondit a schuil an haed the cemetery o the ceety built an aw.
Romkarank / Romans 13 : 11–13 - Kall pavlo mhonn tumi tôr zannont; nhidentlim utthcho vogôt zalo. Ami bhavarth dhôrlo tea disa poros amchi soddvonn atam odik lagim asa. 12 Rat sorot aili, dis lagim pavlo; dekhun kallokhacheô vaitt kornniô sôddun dium-ia ani zhuzachim hatiaram gheun disa-uzvaddachea kornniank lagum-ia. 13 Disa-uzvaddak sobta toxem, mannsugen ami cholum-ia; dhumxannam nakat, bebdikai naka, pozoddponn vô bemoriad naka, zhogddim ani nattkaiô nakat. / And do this because you know the time; it is the hour now for you to awake from sleep. For our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed; 12 the night is advanced, the day is at hand. Let us then throw off the works of darkness [and] put on the armor of light; 13 let us conduct ourselves properly as in the day, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in promiscuity and licentiousness, not in rivalry and jealousy.
Many books about WWII, and other wars, focus on the military battles and campaigns. This one focuses on support roles that gave the Allies the edge when the Axis seemed to be ahead in so many senses.
Beam, C.R. unn J.R. Brown (2004) The Comprehensive Pennsylvania German Dictionary Volume One: A, Millersville: Center for Pennsylvania German Studies Millersville University.
On actions, products and other topics in philosophy. Toim. Johannes Brandl ja Jan Wolenski. Amsterdam: Rodopi 1999. Tõlkinud ja kommenteerinud Arthur Szylewicz
Vlad ek 2003 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Michael D. Sellers ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Francesco Quinn, Billy Zane, Brad Dourif, Paul Popowich acting kiye the.
This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of its submission to the States by the Congress.
In September 2001, fellow New York superstation WWOR-TV (channel 9, now a MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated station) began airing several Yankees baseball games that were originally scheduled to air on sister station WNYW. WWOR began carrying Yankees games on a full-time basis in 2005, through a production agreement with the YES Network (WWOR's former parent company, News Corporation (which spun off WWOR, WNYW and the remainder of its U.S. entertainment and broadcasting properties – excluding YES Network – to 21st Century Fox in July 2013), would acquire a majority interest in the regional sports network in 2011).
Frank Lincoln Wright (Richland Center, Wisconsin 8 June, 1867 – 9 April, 1959), prus conotta comente Frank Lloyd Wright, fue unu architect americanu.
The club wis foondit on 15 Julie 1917. They wan the Campeonato Mineiro Second Level in 2003, an the Taça Minas Gerais in 1980, 2009, an in 2010.
When Thursday Night Football was added to the NFL schedule permanently, Westwood One created a specific broadcast team to cover it. From 2006 until 2008, Dick Enberg was the play-by-play man. Sam Wyche was the initial color analyst, and Dennis Green replaced him after the 2006 season.
The sidebar lock operates using fins on a radial key that actuate sidebars that align with a cylindrical code bar within the lock. This is a new type of master key technology developed by the Australian Lock Company. The keys and the code bar are cut using a computer numerical control (CNC) machine.
Maricopa County (/ˌmærᵻˈkoʊpə/ MARR-i-KOH-pə) is a coonty locatit in the sooth-central pairt o the U.S. state o Arizona. As o the 2010 census, its population wis 3,817,117, makkin it the maist populous coonty in the state, an the fowert-maist populous in the Unitit States. It is mair populous nor 23 states. The coonty seat is Phoenix, the state caipital an saxt-maist populous ceety in the kintra.
Some authors distinguish it from a compound spike, by requiring that the flowers (and fruit) be pedicellate. The branches of a panicle are often racemes. A panicle may have determinate or indeterminate growth.
if we see it as a process of social self-institution where there is no divinely or 'objectively' defined code of human conduct, such guarantees are by definition ruled out. Therefore, the replacement of the market economy by a new institutional framework of inclusive democracy constitutes only the necessary condition for a harmonious relation between the natural and social worlds. The sufficient condition refers to the citizens' level of ecological consciousness. Still, the radical change in the dominant social paradigm that would follow the institution of an inclusive democracy, combined with the decisive role that paedeia will play in an environmentally-friendly institutional framework, could reasonably be expected to lead to a radical change in the human attitude towards Nature.
At weddings he was acclaimed for the warm welcoming of the bride and groom with his number Maa Destmal Aawordaim (ما دستمال آورديم ) (Gohar Album) which roughly translates as “we‘ve brought our brother’s bride.” This album established Nasrat as a respected singer and also garnered him praise of critics. As a matter of fact, the monumentalizing of the bride and groom union following the entrance anthem of Ahesta Boro (آهسته برو) in weddings with the hit song of the Gohar Album is now a strong tradition of Afghan weddings.
As some of your might be aware, a small group of Wikimedia volunteers have proposed a banner campaign informing Wikipedia readers about the urgent situation of our fellow Wikipedian, open source software developer and Creative Commons activist, Bassel Khartabil. An exemplary banner and an explanatory page have now been prepared, and translated into about half a dozen languages by volunteer translators.
Yadagiri, P. 2001. The osteology Kotasaurus yamanpalliensis, a sauropod dinosaur from the Early Jurassic Kota Formation of India. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology, 21, 2, 242-252.
Son cleayney ny Soolynn er y wheiggey y cur fo chosh, ren Tsar Alistair I ny Roosh preeu-valley assjee, as chaill Turku e staydys. Va troggalyn, straidyn as çheshvean noa, cosoylagh rish Caayr Pheddyr troggit ayns eash noa yn valley.
Please feel free to post a note about the election on your project's village pump. Any questions related to the election can be posted on the talk page on Meta, or sent to the election committee's mailing list, board-elections -at- wikimedia.org
Sucre is a depairtment in the Caribbean Natural Region o Colombie. The depairtment ranks 27t bi aurie, 10,670 km2 (4,120 sq mi) an it haes a population o 772,010, rankin 20t o aw the 32 depairtments o Colombie. Sucre is bordered bi the Caribbean on the northwast; bi Bolívar on the east an bi Córdoba on the wast.
The Magna Carta (1215; England) required the King of England to renounce certain rights and respect certain legal procedures, and to accept that the will of the king could be bound by law.
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (de.: "Harry Potter und der Gefangene von Azkaban", fr: "Harry Potter et le prisonnier d'Azkaban" (1999))
Athin the city limits, the wid auries an wetlands is statit tae be weel conserved, includin wild birds an ither ainimals. Its rainforests is also protect unner suitable environmental laws an aw.
Ta shennaghys gurneilys ynnydagh 'sy Reeriaght Unnaneysit cowrit liorish ceaghlaghyn beggey ayns reaghysyn roish yn Unnaneys derrey yn 19oo eash. Veih shen ta aafilley beayn ayns paart as obbraghey. Cha haghyr ny ceaghlaghyn ayns oash cullee ayns Bretin, Nalbin, Nerin Hwoaie as Bretin as ta jee-veanaghey cummaght harrish gurneilys ynnydagh gys Bretin, Nalbin as Nerin Hwoaie keayllaghey nagh vel ceaghlaghyn ry-heet ayns oash cullee.
Citakan:Russia topics Citakan:Russian diaspora Citakan:Lists of Russians Citakan:Slavic ethnic groups Citakan:Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Christians
Roger Mattson, USA, Former director of reactor systems safety and leader, TMI Lessons Learned Task Force, US Nuclear Regulatory Commission; working group co-chair, INSAG-3
In general, the term OTA implies the use of wireless mechanisms to send provisioning data or update packages for firmware or software updates to a mobile device - this is so that the user does not have to go to a store or a service center to have applications provisioned, paraméters changed or firmware or software updated. Non-OTA options for a user are a) to go to a store and seek help b) use a PC and a cable to connect to the device and change settings on a device, add software to device, etc.
Bailey, Margaret Lewis (1914). Milton and Jakob Boehme; a study of German mysticism in seventeenth-century England. - New York։ Oxford University Press.
The boys' lacrosse team won the overall state championship in 1979 (defeating Montclair High School in the final game of the toournament) and 1982 (vs. West Morris Central High School).
From about ૦.૨ to about ૦.૭ solar radii, the material is hot and dense enough that thermal radiation is sufficient to transfer the intense heat of the core outward. In this zone, there is no thermal convection: while the material grows cooler with altitude, this gradient in temperature is not strong enough to drive convection. Heat is transferred by ions of hydrogen and helium emitting photons, which travel a brief distance before being re-absorbed by other ions.
Mushuna (steak, fleshy meat) apa kureva nyama yemunyepfu. Chishashavira chowadya ganda kukunda wadya mushuna: Boasting about what was eaten with skin praises it more than the one who has eaten steak. (which has same meaning as empty barrels make the loudest noise.
Afrikaans yw yeth ermanek kewsys yn Afrika Dheghow ha Namibi. An tavas a dhallathas avel furv Iseldiryek dannvenys dhe Gonna-tir Govenek Da.
In 1953, Tristão de Bragança Cunha formed the Goa Action Committee to coordinate the various anti-colonial groups working independently in Mumbai. Goans and non-Goans offered Satyagraha in solidarity with the struggle.प्रारूप:Citation needed
A honest Dutchmen, in training up his son in the way he should go, frequently exercised him in Bible lessons. On one of these occasions he asked him: 'Who vas dat would no sleep mit Bottipher´s vife?' 'Shoseph!' 'Dat´s a good boy. 'Vell vat vas de reason he would no sleep mit her?' 'Don´t know ! [~]pose he vasn´t sleepy.
Haye R1549a R1549a R1568 R1568 R1606 R1630a R1630a R1630a R1630b R1665 R1665 R1675 R1675 R1713a R1713a R1713a R1780 R1780 H1403 H1535 H1568 H1606 H1606 H1665 H1665 H1674 H1674 H1674 H1780a Hm1780 Hm1780 S1459 S1473a S1473a S1473a S1473a S1473b S1549a S1568a S1606a S1665b S1665b S1674b S1749c U1473 U1473 U1473 U1473 U1473 U1473 U1606 U1630a U1630b U1630b U1630b U1630b St1665 St1674 St1674 B1359 B1568 B1568 B1606 B1665 B1674 R1713b R1713b
We hope that this software will be useful to people in your community, and we can really use your help to make it better! Please let us know if you find any problems. If you're willing and able, please report the issue in Bugzilla in the "VisualEditor" product. If you would prefer not, please explain the issue you found on the central feedback page on MediaWiki.org. If you notice major issues impacting your project, we would appreciate it if you could let us know directly. Please leave a note on my talk page or, if it’s an emergency, like an unexpected bug causing widespread issues, reach out to James Forrester, the Product Manager, at jforrester@wikimedia.org for immediate attention.
Fullard, J. H. 2006. Evolution of hearing in moths: the ears of Oenosandra boisduvalii (Noctuoidea: Oenosandridae). Australian journal of zoology 54: 51–56. PDF.
pagi, v.t to lop off the branches and leaves of trees (as by the ‘Orò’) eaten the leaves of a tree. Orò pagi orò has eaten the leaves of the tree.
On November 8, 1998, the first NFL game to be broadcast in HDTV was televised on CBS. That game took place at Giants Stadium between the New York Jets and Buffalo Bills. It was also the first time two Heisman Trophy winning quarterbacks started against each other in the NFL (Vinny Testaverde for the Jets and Doug Flutie for the Bills).
Greetings. Starting on August 21 (tomorrow), all users with an account will be using HTTPS to access Wikimedia sites. HTTPS brings better security and improves your privacy. More information is available at m:HTTPS.
Here Come The Chicken is a Wiggles song about a chicken hiccuping. It appears in Sailing Around the World, Racing to the Rainbow, and both series of The Wiggles Show. The first version was done in Wiggly Animation in 2005, while in 2006 there were two Live-Action versions made.
John R. Swanton, Source Material on the History and Ethnology of the Caddo Indians (Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 132, Washington: GPO, 1942). *Dorman H. Winfrey and James M. Day, eds., Texas Indian Papers (4 vols., Austin: Texas State Library, 1959-61; rpt., 5 vols., Austin: Pemberton Press, 1966).
Gunundu Izwi rokuti chikunundu rinoreva (stoop - in posture). Rega kuita chikunundu senguruve uchifamba. Do not walk with a stoop, with your nose down like a pig.
The coverage carried the CBS Radio Sports tag (both with and without "Westwood One") for many years before switching to Westwood One. The Mutual Broadcasting System, purchased by Westwood One in 1985, also aired NFL coverage for many years, while NBC Radio, purchased by Westwood One in 1987, had exclusive NFL coverage in 1985-86. Westwood One now acknowledges the NBC Radio broadcasts as part of the entire history of the network's football coverage. Westwood One also served as the distributor for the Sports USA network's NFL games; as such, Westwood One employed Sports USA announcers for certain games covered by the former network, including Thanksgiving Day games, the opening Monday night doubleheader, and Wild Card Weekend, during the 2009 and 2010 seasons. This agreement was terminated in the 2011 offseason.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
Isotope masses from Ame2003 Atomic Mass Evaluation by G. Audi, A.H. Wapstra, C. Thibault, J. Blachot and O. Bersillon in Nuclear Physics A729 (2003).
If HTTPS causes problems for you, tell us on bugzilla, on IRC (in the #wikimedia-operations channel) or on meta. If you can't use the other methods, you can also send an e-mail to https@wikimedia.org.
Bogota, Colombia ke capital city hae. Iske abaadi 7 million hae aur ii samunsar se uppar ek 2,600 meters ke plateau pe hae. Hian ke mausam jaada kar ke achchhaa rahe hae aur raat me thanda rahe hae. Ii city me dher bike path hae aur hian pe dher park hae.
Athens, Attica ke central plains me hae, jiske west me Mount Aegaleo, north me Mount Parnitha, northeast me Mount Penteli aur east me Mount Hymettus hae. Athens kuchh pahaarr pe banaa hae. is built around a number of hills. Lycabettus is one of the tallest hills of the city proper and provides a view of the entire Attica Basin. The geomorphology of Athens is deemed to be one of the most complex in the world due to its mountains and causes a temperature inversion phenomenon which, along with the failure of the Greek Government to control industrial pollution, is responsible for the air pollution problems the city has recently faced. This issue is not characteristic of Athens alone; for intsance, Los Angeles and Mexico City also suffer from similar geomorphology inversion problems.
Until the late twentieth century, graphite and diamond were the only known allotropes of carbon. Then, in molecular béam experiments, discrete péaks were observed corresponding to molecules with the exact mass of 60, 70, or gréater numbers of carbon atoms. Harold Kroto, from the University of Sussex, James Heath, Sean O'Brien, Robert Curl and Richard Smalley, from Rice University, discovered C60 and the fullerenes. Kroto, Curl, and Smalley were awarded the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their roles in the discovery of this class of compounds. C60 and other fullerenes were later noticed occurring outside of a laboratory environment (e.g. in normal candle soot). By 1991 it was relatively éasy to produce grams of fullerene powder using the techniques of Donald Huffman and Wolfgang Krätschmer. As of the éarly twenty-first century, the chemical and physical properties of fullerenes are still under héavy study, in both pure and applied reséarch labs. In April 2003, fullerenes were under study for potential medicinal use — binding specific antibiotics to the structure to target resistant bacteria and even target certain cancer cells such as melanoma. In October 2004, reséarchers at the University of Manchester and Institute of Microelectronics Technology and High Purity Materials[1] at Chernogolovka discovered the first two-dimensional fullerene, called graphene.
7 December 1929 - meeting of teachers from western side of Viti Levu formed the Lautoka Teachers’ Association was formed under the chairmanship of Pt Ami Chandra. Dukharan was elected as the Vice President and W K Phillip became the Secretary/Treasurer. There was a committee of four executive members namely Robert Varo, D S John, P M Stephen and William.
During the 19th century, the town was in the county of Lagny, with a population from 500 to 550 inhabitants. Two ordinances, 6 June 1826 and 15 August 1827 reduced the territory of Bussy in favour of the territories of Ferrières and Jossigny.
“Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his power. Put on the whole armor of God, so that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.” – Ephesians. 6:10-11
Puberty is the process o pheesical changes through which a bairn's body maturs intae an adult body capable o sexual reproduction tae enable fertilisation. It is initiatit bi hormonal signals frae the brain tae the gonads: the ovaries in a girl, the testes in a boy. In response tae the signals, the gonads produce hormones that stimulate libido an the growth, function, an transformation o the brain, banes, muscle, bluid, skin, hair, breasts, an sex organs. Pheesical growth—hicht an wicht—accelerates in the first hauf o puberty an is completit when the bairn haes developed an adult body. Till the maturation o their reproductive capabilities, the pre-pubertal pheesical differences atween boys an girls are the external sex organs.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 25,461 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 64.60 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 5611.
Ore deposits o palladium an ither PGMs are rare, an the maist extensive deposits hae been foond in the norite belt o the Bushveld Igneous Complex coverin the Transvaal Basin in Sooth Africae, the Stillwatter Complex in Montana, Unitit States, the Thunder Bay Destrict o Ontario, Canadae, an the Norilsk Complex in Roushie. Recyclin is a soorce o palladium, maistly frae scrapped catalytic converters. The numerous applications an leemitit supply soorces o palladium result in the metal attractin considerable investment interest.
During her stint on the Thunderbolts team, her powers have grown. She is now fast enough to match the Speed Demon in hand-to-hand, and is described as being 'the living embodiment of action'. After turning on her teammates, she was subdued and was last seen in prison.
During the late 1960s and early 1970s, Coburn cultivated an image synonymous with "cool", and along with such contemporaries as Lee Marvin, Steve McQueen, and Charles Bronson became one of the prominent "tough-guy" actors of his day.
Plantilla:Refimprove The NFL on Westwood One Sports is the branding for Cumulus Broadcasting subsidiary Westwood One's radio coverage of the National Football League. The broadcast previously was branded with the CBS Radio and Dial Global marques; CBS Radio was the original Westwood One's parent company and Dial Global purchased the company in 2011. Dial Global has since reverted its name to Westwood One after eliminating the branding in 2012.
Alba Lucía Riquelme Valenzuela (born February 5, 1991 in Asunción, Paraguay) is a Paraguayan model and beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Miss Universo Paraguay 2011 and represented her country in the 2011 Miss Universe pageant. She is not related to fellow Paraguayan model, Larissa Riquelme.
In an insightful conversation with curator Bisi Silva about this exhibition, Ndidi Dike said: “I visited Badagry in 2002 to see the slave route through which large numbers of our people were sent to the Americas to work daily, for long hours on plantations under subhuman conditions. During that visit, I knew I was standing face to face with history. Yet, much as I wanted to go back sooner, it only happened in 2007 at which point I knew I wanted to capture in a dramatic visual form this cataclysmic episode in human history. No-one can visit Badagry without being moved by this ignoble part of our history or by the consequences of man’s inhumanity.” Dike’s experimentation with form led to the sculptural offering “Dwellings, Doors and Windows” in which she appropriated harbour pallets; she then broke them down to reconfigure the materials in a manner that evoked the Middle Passage. Blood is a striking motif of the sculpture, and Dike explains: “The blood represents what was shed before, during and after the Trans-Atlantic trade, but also what continues to be shed today.” –
Copernicus and Astrology — Cambridge University: Copernicus had – of course – teachers with astrological activities and his tables were later used by astrologers.
Otoha's twin younger brother who disappeared many years prior to the time depicted in the anime. Otoha loves her twin brother and before his disappearance they got along well and had the same dream to fly in the sky. Later it is known that his disappearance caused by WORMs.
In 1975, The NFL Today debuted with journalist Brent Musburger and former NFL player Irv Cross, and with former Miss America Phyllis George as one of the reporters. Jimmy Snyder, nicknamed The Greek, joined in 1976. Snyder was dismissed by CBS Sports at the end of the 1987 season, one day after making comments about racial differences among NFL players on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day in 1988. Phyllis George was replaced by Miss Ohio USA 1970 Jayne Kennedy from the 1978 to the 1979 NFL season. George would return in 1980 and stay on through the 1983 season. She was replaced by Charlsie Cantey. 1979 was the first year the Sports Emmy Awards were awarded to sportscasts, among them was The NFL Today.
Washington County is 1729 ois Kings County aus Tein vo Providence County buidt und 1781 in Washington County umbnennt worn. Washington County is emfois ois South County bekonnt.
Georgy Kopchinsky, Ukraine, Former head, nuclear power and industry department, USSR Council of Ministers; former vice chair, Ukrainian nuclear regulatory authority
(en) O’Brien Donal B. Cruise, The Mourids of Senegal. The Political and Economic Organization of an Islamic Brotherhood, Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1971, XXII-321 p. (Publication d'une thèse de 1969)
Plantilla:See also New York City independent station WPIX (channel 11) obtained the broadcast rights to the New York Yankees in 1951, and carried the team's games for 47 years until 1998. It was through its coverage of Yankees baseball games that WPIX, which had also for a time aired games from the New York Giants baseball franchise (which later moved to San Francisco), that WPIX gained perhaps its greatest fame and identity. WPIX lost the broadcast television rights to the Yankees to Fox owned-and-operated station WNYW (channel 5) following the 1998 Major League Baseball season, sharing rights with the Madison Square Garden Network, which became the team's exclusive local broadcaster in 2001.
Forster & Platnick, 1985 : A review of the austral spider family Orsolobidae (Arachnida, Araneae), with notes on the superfamily Dysderoidea. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History, no 181, p. 1-229 (texte intégral).
Seronik, G.; Ashford, A. R. "Chasing the Moons of Jupiter". Sky & Telescope. Retrieved 2007-03-09. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
Users must vote with an account meeting the above requirements either on Commons or another SUL-related Wikimedia project (for other Wikimedia projects, the account must be attached to the user's Commons account through SUL).
Victor Sidorenko, Russia, Correspondent member of Russian Academy of Science; former member, INSAG; former deputy director, Kurchatov Institute; former deputy Chairman of the USSR nuclear regulatory authority; former deputy minister of nuclear power of the USSR and Russia
I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.
— (1905). The Advanced Part of a Treatise on the Dynamics of a System of Rigid Bodies: Being Part II of a Treatise on the Whole Subject. With Numerous Examples. London: Macmillan and Co. Ltd.
Apart from its history, culture, and scenic locations, it is also known for its Rajput-era palaces. The Lake Palace, for instance, covers an entire island in the Pichola Lake. Many of the palaces have been converted into luxury hotels. It is often called the "Venice of the East", and is also nicknamed the "Lake City".[2][3] Lake Pichola, Fateh Sagar Lake, Udai Sagar and Swaroop Sagar in this city are considered some of the most beautiful lakes in the state.
Va sleih çhaglym scheimyn aitt myr lioaryn cho leah as 1833, as ayns 1842 va The Adventures of Obadiah Oldbuck (çhyndaa jeh “Histoire de M. Vieux Bois”) y chied hie er soilshaghey magh ‘sy Vaarle. Cha row ad rere’n aght caslys-skeeal jeianagh, lesh bolganyn glare, agh caslyssyn as meer screeuyn foue.
Altho no recogneised in the owthor's lifetime, his trilogy A Scots Quair, an in parteicular its first beuk Sunset Song is conseidert tae be amang the definin warks o the 20t century Scots Renaissance.
M. Prasad, Sixty Years of Soccer in Fiji 1938 – 1998: The Official History of the Fiji Football Association, Fiji Football Association, Suva, 1998.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, Order of the Bath (5 June 1883–21 April 1946) ek British economist rahaa, jiske ideas ke Keynesian economics bola jaawe hae. Uu bolis rahaa ki sarkar ke ke tax aur banking measures ke kaam me laae ke economic recessions, depressions aur booms ke control kare ke chaahi. Uu modern theoretical of macroeconomics ke guru rahaa.
1778 – American Revolutionary War: King Paris ing Kasunduan ning Pamianib (Treaty of Alliance) ampo ing Treaty of Amity and Commerce megpirma la reng United States mpop ing France pegumpisan ning pamangilala keng bayung republica.
Kuhwaradadika (Be. or be able to be emptied, or stripped, completely). Makore anga avako ahwaradadika: the clouds that were in the sky have disappeared completely.
The Interview ek 2014 mein bana Korean, English film hain. Yea film USA mein Evan Goldberg, Seth Rogen ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein James Franco, Seth Rogen, Lizzy Caplan, Randall Park acting kiye the.
Watson, Thomas J. (1954). "As a Man Thinks ...": Thomas J. Watson, the Man and His Philosophy of Life as Expressed in His Editorials. IBM. OCLC 2478365
d: Yudhishtira, Bhima, Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva were acknowledged sons of Pandu but were begotten by Kunti's invocation of various deities. They all married Draupadi (not shown in tree).
Fig. 2. Much after the same manner, if ACBD [in Fig. 3.] represent a Glass spherically convex on both sides (usually called a Lens, such as is a Burning-glass, or Spectacle-glass, or an Object-glass of a Telescope) and it be required to know how Light falling upon it from any lucid point Q shall be refracted, let QM represent a Ray falling upon any point M of its first spherical Surface ACB, and by erecting a Perpendicular to the Glass at the point M, find the first refracted Ray MN by the Proportion of the Sines 17 to 11. Let that Ray in going out of the Glass be incident upon N, and then find the second refracted Ray Nq by the Proportion of the Sines 11 to 17. And after the same manner may the Refraction be found when the Lens is convex on one side and plane or concave on the other, or concave on both sides.[Pg 9]
Bungeni is one of the most developed villages in the Makhado local municipality. Amongst the most developed section of Bungeni is Nhjakanhjaka A village a small suburban called Mandela and Tana na Pulani has houses and mansion that compete with Makhado Town and other developed areas in the South Africa. The Bungeni 'post office' is situated at Bungeni Xikhulu area. Nhjakanhjaka A has a fully fledge filling station, Pharmacy, Fresh Loaf Bakery Shoprite U Save complex, Pep Store and Fish & Chips which opened on 27 October 2014 and a community Radio, known as Hlanganani Community radio.The village has seven famous soccer team: Bungeni Young Tigers,Basani Arrow Chiefs,Njhakanjhaka Mighty Chiefs, Nwa-Mhandzi All Dangerous, Bungeni Junior Birds, Mahatlani All Stars & Bungeni New Born.
Josh Groban hevur 6 ferðir verið gestur hjá Oprah Winfrey, eisini hevur hann verið gestur hjá The Ellen DeGeneres Show, Larry King Live, The Rosie O'Donnell Show, Tim & Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, 20/20, Today, Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, Super Bowl XXXVIII, and Jimmy Kimmel Live.Hann hevur eisini fleiri ferðir verið gestavertur í morgunsendingini Live with Regis and Kelly ímillum 2006 og 2014.
Please take a look at the edits of the following users have made and decide if they should get an bot-flag or not. An bot-flag will hide their edits from the Recent changes. Once you have reached a decision or one week has passed, I will post a request at meta:Steward requests/Bot status.
Joseph Priestley, A Historical Account of the Navigable Rivers, Canals, and Railways, of Great Britain, Longman, Rees Orme, Brown and Green, London, 1831
C British banknotes are issued by the Bank of England and by some banks in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Laws on legal tender vary between various jurisdictions.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
Mention if the work is a derivative work or adaptation, in addition to the above, one needs to identify that their work is a derivative work i.e., “This is a Finnish translation of [original work] by [author].” or “Screenplay based on [original work] by [author].”
Tosca's Kiss ek 1984 mein bana Italian film hain. Yea film Switzerland mein Daniel Schmid ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Giuseppe Manacchini, Leonida Bellon, Salvatore Locapo, Giovanni Puligheddu acting kiye the.
Babil Province (Arabic: بابل Bābil‎‎) (or Babylon Province) is a province in central Iraq. It haes an aurie o 5,603 square kilometres (2,163 sq mi), wi an estimatit population o 1,950,000 fowk in 2013. The provincial caipital is the ceety o Hillah, which lees opposite the auncient ceety o Babylon (بابل), on the Euphrates river.
The service industry is maist significant in Geneva whaur there heidquarters o a number o internaitional corporations an organizations, such as the Unitit Naitions an the International Labor Organization. Agricultur is commonplace in the hinterlands o Geneva, pairticularly wheat an wine. Precision machinery an instruments are ither branches whaur the economy o the canton o Geneva is strang. This is an aw reflectit in the tradition o watchmakkin in Geneva.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
Ek khorem, bhartant yeupi areank tache adim bhartant rabito korun axil'lea das, dosyu ani nixad hachem ostitv manun gheuchem poddlam. He dasy, dosyu ani nixad fokot bhartantoch axil'le oxem nhoi zalear te udent, irann, ofgannistan, vaivy ani ostont bharot toxench gonga nhoyechem degonn hea prodexamni xipddil'le asunk zai. He ary adlem drovidd asum va nasum, tanchi somskritai khaxeli axil'li ani ticho zolm' bharta bhailea bhumdhy doreache udente koddlea vattharant zalo oxem vidvananchem mot asa. Sindhu somskritayentola monxachea sangaddeacher kel'lea obheasant medditterreniyon vonxache lok thoim chodd disleat. Hea susomskrit lokanche jivit podhdoticho probhavo heddpi areancher zaunk zai. Hache voilean oxem mhonnu yeta, tanchem mull tthannem khomyuy aslem tori bhartant he lok aream adlea kallar saun axil'le. He areamadole lok khubuch fuddaril'le axil'le. Atachem somskritayechory dhorm' ani ary somskritayekodden aglloch mell zal'lo asa. Atachem somskritayechory dhorm' ani ary somskritayekodden aglloch mell zal'lo asa. Sindhu somskritayent mellil'lea matri deutanchea murtimvoilean oxem onuman kaddop zata ki he purvil'le somskritayeche lok matrideuta ani pitrideuta hanchea rupan jivotpot'ti ani vixvache kolponechi manddnni kori sarke progot axil'le.
Eisemberg, C.C. Costa, B. G. Guterres, E.C. Reynolds, S.J. & Christian, K.: Assessment of Chelodina mccordi current status and community awareness along the Lake Iralalaro, Timor-Leste, Report to the Mohamed bin Zayed Species Conservation Fund, Turtle Conservation Fund, and Andrew Sabin Family Foundation, by the Research Institute for the Environment and Livelihoods, Charles Darwin University, 2014 (English)
Contributions to Wikipedia are covered by the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL), one of the many copyleft licenses that permit the redistribution, creation of derivative works, and commercial use of content. This license allows Wikipedia's editors to retain copyright of their work, but allows others to build upon that work and republish it, as long as the original author is credited and the derivative work is likewise covered by the GFDL. This license ensures that Wikipedia can be edited freely; each author's contributions are recorded for posterity in a database. Larry Sanger has said that having the GFDL as a "guarantee of freedom is a strong motivation to work on a free encyclopedia".
In a playing career that spanned eighteen years, Sohail played in 195 first-class and 261 List A Limited Overs matches, including 47 Test matches and 156 One Day Internationals for Pakistan.
The destrict o Sepang is an aa famous for the tounship o Cyberjaya, which is an aa kent as the Silicon Valley o Malaysie vis-à-vis its association wi the MSC Malaysie. Currently, ower 250 multinaitional companies ar locatit in Cyberjaya. The caipital o Sepang destrict is Salak Tinggi, which took ower frae Sepang toun.
The US Embassy in Dili states that in 2009 the F-FDTL comprised 719 qualified soldiers and a further 579 in training. Of the 579 recruits under training it is planned that 150 will be allocated to the Naval Component.
Gerald Stone, Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, p. 213.
An Paperyow Pickwick, po The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club, yw an kynsa romans gans Charles Dickens. Dyllys veu an lyver ma yn 1836 kynsa.
Tailorbirds are found in singly or in pairs, usually low in the undergrowth or trees sometimes hopping on the ground. They forage for insects and have been known to feed on a range of beetles and bugs. They are attracted to insects at flowers and are known to favour the inflorescenses of mango. They also visit flowers such as those of Bombax, Salmalia for nectar and are sometimes covered in pollen, giving them a golden-headed appearance.
The climate in Zegama is teepical o the eastren Cantabrie aurie, temperate an humid, wi a average temperatur o aroond 12°C. Thare are aroond 180 rainy days a year. Hairst can be quite windy.
Endowed with godly powers, Shree Hanuman was a military leader of the monkey army from Kiskinda, who aided Lord Rama in his quest to retrieve his kidnapped wife Sita from the demon king Ravanna in the Hindu epic tale Ramayana, written by the Hindu sage Valmiki.
Malli ittiin baayoogaazii ol guddisan gurguddaa afurtu jira: miiccaa bishaanii, pressure swing adsorption, selexol adsorption, and amine gas treating.
The jackfruit tree is widely cultivatit an popular fuid item in tropical regions o India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, an the Philippines. Jackfruit is an aa foond athort Africae (e.g., in Cameroon, Uganda, Tanzanie, an Mauritius), as well as throughoot Brazil an in Caribbean naitions such as Jamaica.From Samsur Uddin Cachet Assam
El Conchal an ither smaw veelages wi a population o 500 or less are locatit 8 kilometres frae El Dorado. Thare fowk live on fishin an tourism. Fowk chairge 350 pesos tae gie boat group tours.
Blitzstein, Marc. 1935. "The Phenomenon of Stravinsky". The Musical Quarterly 21, no. 3 (July): 330–47. Reprinted 1991, The Musical Quarterly 75, no. 4 (Winter): 51–69.
The Medlycott Baronetcy, of Ven House in the County of Somerset, is a title in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 3 October 1808 for William Medlycott, Member of Parliament for Milborne Port from 1790 to 1791. The family descended from James Medlycott, of Ven House, who represented Milborne Port in the House of Commons between 1710 and 1722. His son Thomas Medlycott (Member of Parliament for Milborne Port from 1747 to 1763) died without surviving male issue in 1763 and left his estates to his maternal nephew Thomas Hutchings, who adopted the surname of Medlycott. His son was the first Baronet.
ALOX5: Arachidonate 5-Lipoxygenase (processes essential fatty acids to leukotrienes, which are important agents in the inflammatory response; also facilitates development and maintenance of cancer stem cells, slow-dividing cells thought to give rise to a variety of cancers, including leukemia);
Glaser's work often focuses on contemporary culture, politics, and ideology, and "exposes other people's polemical strategies, particularly when they are concealed or disavowed; presented as self-evident fact." Glaser has written reports and articles for the New Economics Foundation and the Institute for Public Policy Research.She is on the management committee of the Compass think tank. She is Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing at Bath Spa University and an Associate Research Fellow at Birkbeck, University of London. In 2017 Glaser will be a Visiting Fellow of St. Catherine's College, Oxford University.
You can help expand this system by creating templates for your language. Categories have already been created for most languages which have editions of Wikipedia containing over a hundred articles; they just need labelling up! It's recommended to copy the English or French versions when expanding the scheme, as most of the languages listed here are incomplete.
Olu Oguibe, Savannah Gallery of Modern African Art, Savannah Gallery of Modern African Art : 8 African Women Artists – Savannah Gallery of Modern African Art, London, 1993.
The corporate mission is to uplift the lives of the less fortunate people through utilization of acquired knowledge and skills being developed by the Foundation.
Ballpoint pens have three characteristics that distinguish them from rollerball systems. First, the ink flow increases with pressure. A rollerball will typically lay down its line without pressure.
Garey, Michael R., and David S. Johnson: Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness. New York: W. H. Freeman & Co., 1979. The standard reference on NP-Complete problems - an important category of problems whose solutions appéar to require an impractically long time to compute.
The mouth is not opened unless you press the nose. You should attack the weak points in a man and he does submit to you. Its like compelling or opening up someone to speak.
He founded a museum in Managua in 1970 named "Museo-Galeria 904". The museum's collection encompassed the arts of Nicaragua from pre-Hispanic to contemporary. In the earthquake of December. 1972, D'León's museum and studio were partly destroyed and later ransacked, vandalized and robbed. After the Sandinistas took power in Nicaragua, he moved to Camarillo, California .
The EdGCM (Educational Global Climate Modelling) Project free research-quality simulation for students, educators, and scientists alike, with a user-friendly interface that runs on desktop computers
Gaius Sabucius Maior Caecilianus was a Roman senator who held a series of positions in the imperial service. His service was capped with the suffect consulship in 186 with Valerius Senecio as his colleague.
In the same period, Johnson won commissions to coordinate the master plan of Lincoln Center, New York City's new arts center, and to design that complex's New York State Theater, built in a massive and unadorned modernist style. He also undertook his first foreign commission, the modernist art museum in Bielefeld, Germany, with a modernist facade clad in dark red stone, and a modernist colonnade of slender pillars. (1968).
Harold Denton, USA, Former director, office of nuclear reactor regulation, US Nuclear Regulatory Commission and President Carter’s representative at TMI during the accident
Function summary: Removing interwiki links from pages that have links on wikidata (this task will not run until Wikidata is rolled out onto this wiki which should be next week)
Phraya Anuman Ratchathon (Yong Sathiankoset). (1954). "Amusements During Songkran Festival". Journal of the Siam Society (volume 42, part 1). pages 39–43.
Katsushika Hokusai (葛飾 北斎, October or November 1760 – May 10, 1849) was a Japanese artist, ukiyo-e painter and printmaker of the Edo period. In his time, he was Japan's leading expert on Chinese painting. Born in Edo (now Tokyo), Hokusai is best-known as author of the woodblock print series Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji (富嶽三十六景, Fugaku Sanjūroku-kei, c. 1831) which includes the internationally recognized print, The Great Wave off Kanagawa, created during the 1820s.
A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. It is soon time to enable the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have already done this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr, bs, sr, sh) and things are looking good. The next step is English Wikipedia. This is planned for April 8. If everything works out fine we will deploy on all remaining Wikipedias on April 10. I will update this part of the FAQ if there are any issues forcing us to change this date. I will also sent another note to this village pump once the deployment is finished.
The species is prone to some vagrancy. One individual in breeding plumage was seen by the river at Bonzon near Gangaw – just inside the Chin State of Burma – west of the species' usual range, on अप्रैल 8, 1995. A stray bird stopping over on Saint Paul Island, Alaska on August 4–9, 1997 was the first recorded occurrence of this species in the United States.
. . . one of the things we have published on astrology a few years back was a very carefully done study in California with the collaboration of 28 astrologers from the San Francisco area and lots of subjects——118 of them altogether——and lunar charts were made by the astrologers. It turned out that the people couldn't recognize their own charts any more accurately than by chance. . . . and that seems to me to be a perfectly convincing and lasting demonstration of how well this thing works in practice. My regret is that there's so many intelligent, able people wasting their time and, might I say, taking other people's money, in this hopeless cause.
Tkhkut (Armenie: Թխկուտ; umwhile, Maralzami) is a veelage in the rural commonty o Vardanidzor in the Syunik Province o Armenie. The Naitional Statistical Service o the Republic o Armenie (ARMSTAT) reportit its population wis 49 at the 2001 census..
17 Girls ek 2011 mein bana French, English film hain. Yea film France mein Delphine Coulin, Muriel Coulin ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Louise Grinberg, Juliette Darche, Roxane Duran, Esther Garrel acting kiye the.
G. Stone: Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, s. 213
Relvechea vaurachea vegvegllea gozalimvixinchem somsodhon ani tontrik vikasachi zobabodari axil'lem risrch ddizhains ondd sttonddrddos ergonaijheson hi veglli somstha asa. Hi somstha relve monddoll, porimonddoli-i relve veustha, utpadok karkhane ani udyeg toxench vepar hankam sol'lo divpachem kam' korta. Vahnam relvemarg pul ani her bandkamam toxench relve vaprota ti sahityosamgri hatunt kromakroman promanni koronn ho he somsthecho mukhel ud'dex asa. Toxench relvechea vaurachea sogllea mollauyolem sonxodhon hatant gheup hem he somsthechem dusrem mhotvachem kary.
UBilly Ocean (wazalwa enguLeslie Sebastian Charles; ngeyoMqungu ngomhla wama-21, ngo1950) ligcisa lomshicileli waseTrinidad naseTobago ongumBritane elinothotho zitshisayo eengoma zepop ye[R&B]] kwihlabathi ngeminyaka yee1970 kunye noo1980. Wayeyeyona mvumi nombhali wwaseBritane weR&B wakhe waduma kwiminyaka yoo1980. After scoring his first four UK Top 20 successes, seven years passed before he accumulated a series of transatlantic successes, including three U.S. number ones. In 1985, Ocean won the Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance for his worldwide hit, "Caribbean Queen", and in 1987 was nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male.
Schyrleus was a determined anticopernican. In the foreword of its book, which includes a dedication to Jesus Christ and Ferdinand III, Schyrleus boldly declared that after having meditated for a long time on the systems of Ptolemy, Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, and other astronomers, he was convinced that all of these scientists had advanced superfluous theories. He dedicated the moons of Jupiter to Pope Urban VIII, calling them Astres Urbanoctavianes. He also wrote that Saturn had two "companions," and that they were periodically eclipsed by the planet. He deduced that they had their own independent orbits, and that they illuminated Saturn, which needed light as it was a hundred times less lit by the sun than the Earth.[3] He tells us that in 1642, in Cologne, he saw pass in front of the Sun a troop (turnam) of shooting stars that followed one another during a period fourteen days, and that the glare of the Sun was considerably weakened by it.
Kijiji kiliachwa mahame katika karne ya 11 BK. This includes the re-establishment of the village during the Early Islamic period soon after the 749 earthquake.
ON THINNER ICE 如履薄冰: signs of trouble from the Water Tower of Asia, where headwaters feed into all the great rivers of Asia (by GRIP, Asia Society and MediaStorm)
An order for 18 production aircraft designated OJ-2 was placed in March 1932, and two more orders followed, one in May 1933 for nine aircraft and a further 12 aircraft in December 1933 for use by reserve units.
Bryophyllum daigremontianum (Raymond-Hamet & H.Perrier) A.Berger, Kalanchoe daigremontiana, [Mother of millions, Devil's backbone, Mexican hat plant]; ʻoku laulahi ange hono lau, pea mo e fakaloupata.
Olive ile is a fat obtained frae the olive (the fruit o Olea europaea; faimily Oleaceae), a tradeetional tree crop o the Mediterranean Basin. The ile is produced bi pressin whole olives.
Gupta, Sujata (6 November 2010). "Bio gas comes in from the cold". New Scientist(London: Sunita Harrington). p. 14. Retrieved 4 February 2011.
Magnesium and calcium are ubiquitous and essential to all known living organisms. They are involved in more than one role, with, for example, magnesium or calcium ion pumps playing a role in some cellular processes, magnesium functioning as the active center in some enzymes, and calcium salts taking a structural role, most notably in bones.
Tha Bucharest (IPA: bu.kuˈreʃtʲ) na phrìomh-bhaile agus am baile as motha ann an Romàinia. Is "Little Paris" neo "Paris of the East" am far-ainm a th' air. Chaidh Bucharest a stèidheachadh anns a' bhliadhna 1459. Tha e suidhichte air bruaich na h-aibhne "Dâmboviţa".
Remove lentils from the heat, drain and reserve water for latter use. Add lentils to the onions. Add reserved water, stirring to prevent mixture from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
[null A laissez-faire leader lacks direct supervision of employees and fails to provide regular feedback to those under his supervision. Highly experienced and trained employees requiring little supervision fall under the laissez-faire leadership style. However, not all employees possess those characteristics. This leadership style hinders the production of employees needing supervision. The laissez-faire style produces no leadership or supervision efforts from managers, which can lead to poor production, lack of control and increasing costs.]
Matev / Mathew 26 : 28 - hem Mhojem Rogot, Korarachem Rogot; sogllea monxank patkanchem bhogsonnem zôddun gheunchê khatir tem Hanvem varounchem asa. / Then he took a cup, gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, “Drink from it, all of you,
Finally, when a team scores a touchdown, the columns that emanate from the logo collapse into the logo. The logo then quickly spins around to show the scoring team's logo, a full bar the shape of the combined boxes quickly protruding showing the word "TOUCHDOWN", with the bug sparkling. After about three or four seconds of this graphic showing, the aforementioned animation takes place once more, this time the bug returning to normal. In all instances of points scored, the changed score flashes a few times to indicate a change in score, with a touchdown score changing after the "TOUCHDOWN" graphic is shown. Notably, this score box was not optimized for high definition as the previous package was, even on HD games.
Patrick V. Stiles, Johann Friedrich Minssen: Frisian Scholar, Neighbour of Bismarck, and Host of the Young Churchill. In: Kees Dekker e.a., eds, Northern Voices. Essays on Old Germanic and Related Topics, Offered to Professor Tette Hofstra, Peeters, Leuven, 2008, S. 229-240.
The Sea o Crete (Greek: Κρητικό Πέλαγος, Kritiko Pelagos) is the sea sooth o the Aegean Sea, north o the island Crete, and sooth o the Cyclades.
The composition of the two types of crust differs markedly. Oceanic crust consists largely of basaltic rocks, while the continental crust consists principally of lower density granitic rocks rich in aluminium and silica. The two types of crust also differ in thickness, with continental crusts considerably thicker than oceanic.
Carpenter and his crew persuaded the city to shut off the electricity to ten blocks at a time at night. The film was shot from August to November 1980. It was a tough and demanding shoot for the filmmaker as he recalls. "We'd finish shooting at about 6 am and I'd just be going to sleep at 7 when the sun would be coming up. I'd wake up around 5 or 6 pm, depending on whether or not we had dailies, and by the time I got going, the sun would be setting. So for about two and a half months I never saw daylight, which was really strange." The gladiatorial fight to the death scene between Snake and Slag (played by professional wrestler Ox Baker) was filmed in the Grand Hall at St. Louis Union Station. Russell has stated, "That day was a nightmare. All I did was swing a [spiked] bat at that guy and get swung at in return. He threw a trash can in my face about five times ... I could have wound up in pretty bad shape." In addition to shooting on location in St. Louis, Carpenter shot parts of the film in Los Angeles. Various interior scenes were shot on a sound stage; the final scenes were shot at the Sepulveda Dam, in Sherman Oaks. New York served as a location, as did Atlanta, to use their futuristic-looking rapid-transit system. In New York City, Carpenter persuaded federal officials to grant access to Liberty Island. "We were the first film company in history allowed to shoot on Liberty Island at the Statue of Liberty at night. They let us have the whole island to ourselves. We were lucky. It wasn't easy to get that initial permission. They'd had a bombing three months earlier and were worried about trouble".
As of 2000, there were 811 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 1,079 married individuals, 158 widows or widowers and 80 individuals who are divorced.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
"All in all, the picture we form of the medieval Latin Church is that of a complex organization doing its best, despite the human frailties of its adherents and leaders, to establish moral and social order, and to spread an uplifting and consoling faith, amid the wreckage of an old civilization and the passions of an adolescent society." (p. 818)
New World Marsupial Specialist Group 1996.Marmosops impavidus In: IUCN 2006. 2006 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Downloaded on 19 January 2007.
Flying Fish Cove is the main settlement o Australie's Christmas Island. Mony cairts simply label it “The Settlement”. It wis the first Breetish settlement on the island, established in 1888.
A survey of the loss of calves, their treatment and prophylaxis with enzyme preparations in Estonia. // Middle-European Buiatrics Congr. 1–3 May, 1998, Siófoc
T'ad goaill stiagh druggaghyn leighagh chammah's fir anleighagh. Ta tombagey, alcoal as caffeen nyn nruggaghyn-soccar, as t'ad ry-chionnaghey dy leighagh ayns ymmodee çheeraghyn. Ta druggaghyn-soccar elley goaill stiagh:
On February 4, 1974, 19-year-old Hearst was kidnapped from her Berkeley, California, apartment. She was beaten and lost consciousness during the abduction. Shots were fired from a machine gun during the incident. An urban guerrilla group called the Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA) claimed responsibility for the abduction.
Fatal Encounters, 2014: Roughly yearlong series focused on the six specific areas of “When law enforcement kills,” this series and the accompanying Fatal Encounters website brought national attention to the current editor, D. Brian Burghart, who appeared on The Daily Show and whose writings and research were featured in Gawker and other news outlets
Charles Patrick "Charlie" Mulgrew (born 6 Mairch 1986) is a Scots internaitional fitbawer wha plays as a central midfielder, centre back or left back for Celtic. he plays left back n he plays left mid hes a center half n hes never slack he the prodigal son n he hates the hun (he hates the huns) Hes charlie mulgrew hes charlie mulgrew
After a short break, Reynolds toured again with Matthews as a duo in 2003. Reynolds and Matthews then reprised their duo shows as an opening act for the Dave Matthews & Friends tour in 2003 and early 2004. They played several shows together in 2006 and 2007. Reynolds joined Matthews on a mini-tour of Europe in February and March 2007. On 14 August 2007, Matthews and Reynolds released a live CD/DVD set, Live at Radio City, including the songs "Stay or Leave", "Gravedigger", "Cornbread", and "Dancing Nancies," among others. It also includes two of Reynolds' own songs; "You are My Sanity" and "Betrayal". The Radio City show was also released in high definition on Blu-ray Disc.
While CBS would stop tape delaying its game broadcasts after the 1981 NBA Finals, many first-round playoff games were not nationally televised (and would not become so until 1995). During this era, CBS typically provided regional coverage of two games in a late Sunday afternoon time slot during the first three weekends of the playoffs. In 1986, CBS provided regional coverage of the Eastern Conferences Finals and Western Conference Finals games on May 18. This would be the last time that any NBA Conference Finals game was not nationally televised.
By 1977, CBS' NBA schedule was composed of six regionalized telecasts on Sundays. Not only that, the network would air one national game if they felt that match-up itself warranted national coverage. CBS also could stage doubleheaders and switch from a one-sided game to a close one. During this period, the network stopped airing any games during prime time prior to the NBA Finals. Instead, CBS started airing several West Coast games at 11:30 p.m. Eastern Time.
The demonstration sport of wheelchair racing was a joint Olympic/Paralympic event, allowing a Paralympic event to occur within the Olympics, and for the future, opening up the wheelchair race to the able-bodied. The 2004 Summer Paralympics were also held in Athens, from September 20 to 28.
Yecnemiliceh Agustin tlacat inic 13 inic totlanacayotiayan inic 354 ipan Tagaste (ipan in tematiantic Argelia), tepiton altepetl itech Numidia ipan in mictlan itech Africa, ca quinihcuac itech oncalaquia in Tlacateuccan romayotl.
Armenie forces eventually secured the region but thair efforts wur in vain whan the Bolsheviks, successfu in the Roushie Ceevil War, pushed deep intae the Caucasus. Syunik wis ane o the last major hauldoots o the DRA whose leaders wur eventually expelled bi incomin Soviet authorities tae Iran. Durin Sovietization, Syunik became pairt o Soviet Armenie, while the twa ither disputit territories, Nakhchivan an Nagorno-Karabakh became pairt o Soviet Azerbaijan. It then became pairt o Armenia unner the Transcaucasie SFSR an pairt o the Armenie SSR in 1936. Unner Soviet rule, Syunik suffered a devastatin yirdquauk in Aprile 1931, leavin 80% o its veelages destroyed. A subsequent yirdquauk hit the region in Mey durin the same year, destroyin 27 o 38 veelages in the Sisian destrict.
Robert Roswell Palmer, " The Kingdom of Corsica and the Science of History ", Proceeding of the American Philosophical Society, CV, 1961, pp. 345-360.
Mint leaves are often used by many campers to repel mosquitoes. It is also said that extracts from mint leaves have a particular mosquito-killing capability.
The Meuse is navigable over a substantial part hire hālan lengþe: In Holland and Belgium, the river is part of the major inland navigation infrastructure, connecting the Rotterdam-Amsterdam-Antwerp port areas to the industrial areas upstream: 's Hertogenbosch, Venlo, Maastricht, Liège, Namur. South of Namur, further upstream, the river can only carry more modest vessels, although a barge as long as 100 m. can still reach the French border town of Givet.
Fruits and Vegetables - Your Reference to Fruits and Vegetables, Veg Recipes, Healthy Diet, Healthy Life and Food Tips, Storage Information, Suppliers Directory.
Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.
A common method used to produce fullerenes is to send a large current between two néarby graphite electrodes in an inert atmosphere. The resulting carbon plasma arc between the electrodes cools into sooty residue from which many fullerenes can be isolated.
Frenkel, M (November 1966). "[Charles Brenton Huggins, co-winner of the Nobel Prize in physiology and medicine, 1966]". Nederlands tijdschrift voor geneeskunde 110 (45): 1994–5. PMID 5342106.
Indexing is one-based, which is the usual convention for matrices in mathematics, although not for some programming languages such as C, C++, and Java.
Voss, R.S., Lunde, D.P. & Jansa, S.A. 2005. On the Contents of Gracilinanus Gardner & Creighton, 1989, with the Description of a Previously Unrecognized Clade of Small Didelphid Marsupials. American Museum Novitates 3482:1-34, 2005.
Seeds are adjuistit on a surface-based seestem tae reflect mair accurately the individual player's gress coort achievement as per the follaein formula, that applees tae the tap 32 players accordin tae the ATP Rankings on 26 Juin 2017:
A leap year (an aa kent as an intercalary year or a bissextile year) is a year conteenin ane addeetional day (or, in the case o lunisolar calendars, a month) addit tae keep the calendar year synchronised wi the astronomical or saisonal year.
Lviv wis foondit in 1256 in Red Ruthenie bi Keeng Danylo Halytskyi o the Ruthenian principality o Halych-Volhynie, an named in honour o his son, Lev. Thegither wi the rest o Red Ruthenie, Lviv wis captured bi the Kinrick o Poland in 1349 durin the reign o Pols keeng Casimir III the Great. Lviv belanged tae the Croun o the Kinrick o Poland 1349–1772, the Austrian Empire 1772–1918 an the Seicont Pols Republic 1918–1939. Wi the Invasion o Poland at the ootbreak o the seicont Warld War, the ceety o Lviv wi adjacent land wur annexed an incorporatit intae the Soviet Union, becomin pairt o the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic frae 1939 tae 1941. Atween Juie 1941 an Julie 1944 Lviv wis unner German occupation an wis locatit in the General Govrenment. In Julie 1944 it wis captured bi the Soviet Red Airmy an the Pols Hame Airmy. Accordin tae the greements o the Yalta Conference, Lviv wis again integratit intae the Ukrainian SSR.
New software is transferred to the phone, installed, and put into use. It is often necessary to turn the phone off and back on for the new programming to take effect, though many phones will automatically perform this action.
April 1, 1889 - Prior to the town and village status activated, Kita-Amabe District founded the town of Usuki and Saganoseki, as well as 25 villages.
Japan renounces all right, title and claim to the Kurile Islands, and to that portion of Sakhalin and the islands adjacent to it over which Japan acquired sovereignty as a consequence of the Treaty of Portsmouth of 5 September 1905.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 25,596 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 107.76 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 8409.
He became professor for Old Testament, Hebrew, and Greek at the University of Buenos Aires, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and then until his retirement at the Waldensian Theological Seminary and at the Sapienza. Among other things he was a fellow at Princeton Theological Seminary, at St John's College, Cambridge and at the Hebrew University. He lectured widely and published various articles and books. He was a member of the editorial board of Henoch, Vetus Testamentum and of Zeitschrift für die Alttestamentliche Wissenschaft.
G. Stone: Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, s. 213
Armenia in the Cultural Context of East and West. Ceramics and Glass (4th-14th centuries, co-authors Kalantaryan A., Melkonyan H., etc.), Yerevan, 2009.
C.Michael Hogan. 2011. Ross Sea. Eds. P.Saundry & C.J.Cleveland. Encyclopedia of Earth. National Council for Science and the Environment. Washington DC
Publishers, owners and other corporate executives, especially advertising sales executives, can try to use their powers over journalists to influence how news is reported and published. Journalists usually rely on top management to create and maintain a "firewall" between the news and other departments in a news organization to prevent undue influence on the news department. One journalism magazine, Columbia Journalism Review, has made it a practice to reveal examples of executives who try to influence news coverage, of executives who do not abuse their powers over journalists, and of journalists who resist such pressures.
North Slope Iñupiaq Grammar Second Year (Preliminary Edition for Student Use Only) by Edna Ahgeak MacLean, Alaska Native Language Center, University of Alaska Fairbanks, seventh printing 2000
A tank is a tracked, graithit fechtin machine, whillk souders mobeelity an fechtin abeelity. Firepouer is for ordinar boden bi a pouerfu main gun an hott smawer machine-guns. Tanks war foremaist biggit tae breuk the deidlock o trench warfare. Aucht its firepouer an graith, whilk maks it a pouerfu wappen, it is conseedered a key pairt o modren airmies.
Wang, Yu-ch'uan (June 1949). "An Outline of The Central Government of The Former Han Dynasty". Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies 12 (1/2): 134–187.
Munt Shasta (Karuk: Úytaahkoo or "White Muntain") is a potentially active volcano at the soothren end o the Cascade Range in Siskiyou Coonty, Californie. At a elevation o 14,179 feet (4321.8 m), it is the seicont heichest peak in the Cascades an the fift heichest in Californie. Munt Shasta haes a estimatit volume o 85 cubic miles (350 km3), which maks it the maist voluminous stratovolcano in the Cascade Volcanic Arc.
Why Discrimination?: The agony of an immigrant, who just wanted to be kind and do his job (Hoezo Discriminatie? Book 1) (2015) ASIN: B0190RATN6
La Grande - La Pine - Lacomb - Lafayette - Lake Oswego - Lake Creek - Lakeside - Lakeview - Langlois - Laurelwood - Lawen - Leaburg - Lebanon - Lexington - Liberal - Lime - Lincoln Beach - Lincoln City - Logsden - Lonerock - Long Creek - Lookingglass - Lorane - Lostine - Low Pass - Lowell - Lyons
Fullerenes are not very réactive due to the stability of the graphite-like bonds, and are also fairly insoluble in many solvents. Reséarchers have been able to incréase the réactivity by attaching active groups to the surfaces of fullerenes.
Woodruff produced this album in the same way he produced the five previous albums . The 14-track album includes collaborations with Eric Rachmany of Rebelution, Slightly Stoopid, KBong, and Collie Buddz.
Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz (Warsjau, 4 novimber 1952) is in Poalsk liberaal-konservatyf politika dy’t sûnt 2 desimber 2006 de boargemaster fan Warsjau is. Se is de earste persoan ea dy’t dy posysje ynnimt.
There are 67 state parks, nine state recreation areas, nine state waysides, and 23 state trails in the Minnesota state park system, totaling approximately 267,000 acres (1,080 km2). A Minnesota state park is an area of land in the U.S. state of Minnesota preserved by the state for its natural, historic, or other resources. Each was created by an act of the Minnesota Legislature and is maintained by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. The Minnesota Historical Society operates sites within some of them. The park system began in 1891 with Itasca State Park when a state law was adopted to "maintain intact, forever, a limited quantity of the domain of this commonwealth...in a state of nature." Minnesota's state park system is the second oldest in the United States, after New York's.
The NBA on CBS is the branding that was used for weekly broadcasts of National Basketball Association (NBA) games produced by CBS Sports, the sports division of the CBS television network in the United States. CBS aired NBA games from the 1973–1974 NBA season (when it succeeded ABC Sports as the national broadcaster of the NBA) until the 1989–90 NBA season (when CBS was succeeded by NBC Sports).
showITIS (optional, defaults to "yes"): A flag to determine whether or not the interwiki link to the Integrated Taxonomic Information System page will be shown.
Actinide series me uu 15 chemical elements hae jon ki periodic table me actinium aur lawrencium ke biich me hae. Iske atomic numbers 89 - 103 hae. Actinide series ke naam actinium se aais hae. Ii sab element radioactive hae.
The large-frame Lightning (also called the "Express Model") was manufactured between 1887 and 1894. Colt records indicate 6,496 were made in different big game calibers such as .38-55 Winchester and .50-95 Express. Barrel length was 22 or 28 in (56 or 71 cm).
The quarry tips appear in the No Quarter: Jimmy Page and Robert Plant Unledded video when Jimmy Page and Robert Plant, formerly of Led Zeppelin, performed there with their band in August 1994.
Another distinguishing feature of ID is its distinction between basic and non-basic needs. Remuneration is according to need for basic needs, and according to effort for non-basic needs. ID is based on the principle that meeting basic needs is a fundamental human right which is guaranteed to all who are in a physical condition to offer a minimal amount of work. By contrast,Fotopoulos argues, Parecon follows the socialdemocratic rather than the anarcho-communist tradition and instead of proposing satisfaction according to need (as the ID project does) declares, first, that particular consumption needs such as health care or public parks will be free to all and, second, that as regards special needs, people will be able to make particular requests for need based consumption to be addressed case by case by others in the economy. In fact, Michael Albert explicitly states that what he calls 'norm four', i.e. 'remuneration according to each person's need' should be applied only in exceptional cases of basic needs and not to all needs defined as such by the citizens' assemblies, as the Inclusive Democracy project declares. Thus, as Albert stresses: "beyond economic justice, we have our compassion, to be applied via norm four where appropriate such as in cases of illness, catastrophe, incapacity and so on".
These are the official results of the Men's 5000 metres event at the 1999 IAAF World Championships in Seville, Spain. There were a total number of 37 participating athletes, with two qualifying heats and the final held on Saturday 28 August 1999 at 21:30h.
An in-depth exploration of Pearson’s diplomacy during the Suez Crisis of १९५६, created by National Dream Productions in conjunction with The Historica Dominion Institute
Amina Boutellis, Laurent Abi-Rached, Didier Raoult. The origin and distribution of human lice in the world. Review. Infection, Genetics and Evolution 23 (2014), 209-217.
She hemicryptophyte beayn-hassooagh t'ayn. Ta stholeyn wheesh as 150km er lhiurid echey, as raisoam feillagh. Ta bolganyn lane dy aer ayns roost ny fraueyn, nyn gochormyssyn noi buill curree gyn monney ocsygien. Ta'n ghass s'inshley oc echey renaigagh. Ta duillagyn sleeanagh liauyrey echey. Ta'n crouw-vlaaghey yl-chioneagh echey. Ta ny blaaghyn ayns cummey cluig as jeant jeh queig petyllyn buighey. T'ad goll er pollnaghey ec shey-chassee ny hene-phollnaghey, as ta ny rassinyn goll er skeaylley liorish y gheay, croghey er beiyn, as liorish snienganyn.
Circumstance ek 2011 mein bana English, Persian, French film hain. Yea film France, USA, Iran mein Maryam Keshavarz ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Nikohl Boosheri, Sarah Kazemy, Reza Sixo Safai, Soheil Parsa acting kiye the.
19 - 20 June 1930 - The two teachers’ organizations met at Natabua in Lautoka elected the officials of the National Executive. Mr S Hari Charan chaired the election procedures when D A Shah was elected the first President and Sewak Masih and S Hari Charan became the two Vice Presidents. R H Ram Narayan was elected the General Secretary with W K Phillip as his Assistant Secretary. J R Lochan became the Treasurer of the Union and there were twelve executive committee members: B H Sanjeu, R Deoki, S Parshu Ram, Andrew G Prasad, S Ram Singh, Tulsi R Sharma, Phillip Cula, I Racule, T Rawasalevu, W Tuiwaqa, Sairusi Natuni and Inoke Cakutini. Total strength of the Union in 1931 was 112 and this included 18 Fijian members.
Hahn, Barbara. Making Tobacco Bright: Creating an American Commodity, 1617-1937 (Johns Hopkins University Press; 2011) 248 pages; examines how marketing, technology, and demand figured in the rise of Bright Flue-Cured Tobacco, a variety first grown in the inland Piedmont region of the Virginia-North Carolina border.
Langley, Jeanne (Productora) i Bradley, Ed (Presentador) (30 d'abril de 2006). The Secret of the Priory of Sió. CBS News. 60 Minutes. Escena en ca. 3 minuts. Consultat el 6 de maig de 2015.
"2007-2010 Comprehensive Development Plan and Executive and Legislative Agenda of Ili of Hadji Mohammad Ajul". Basilan Province Official Website. Provincial Government of Basilan. Naiyarkibo manipud iti kasisigud idi 18 Enero 2016. Naala idi 25 Septiembre 2016.
Li Canton Central-Bosnia have 273.149 (2013) habitantes. Li canton es secun national gruppes mixtet inter bosniakes e croates. Pro to it havet un special statu.
(anglès) Edward A. Alpers, « Madagascar and Mozambique in the nineteenth century: the erce of Sakalava raids (1800-1820) », in Omaly sy anio, 5-6, 1977, p. 37–53
For the first two rounds of the playoffs, often the regular broadcast teams are mixed, due to Boomer Esiason's unavailability. During the wild card and divisional weekends, there are four games, therefore four separate crews are needed. Some of the other established crews call the less-popular games. For instance, in 2007, Dick Enberg and Dennis Green (from the Thursday night crew) called one of the wild card games, and Marv Albert called games alongside Jim Fassel from the Sunday doubleheader team. In 2009, the teams were even more mixed - for example, Marv Albert called an opening round game with Dennis Green and a divisional playoff game with Warren Moon.
Field hockey is a team sport o the hockey faimily. The earliest origins o the sport date back tae the Middle Ages in Ingland, Scotland an the Netherlands. The gemme can be played on a gress field or a turf field as well as an induir buird surface. Each team plays wi eleiven players includin the goalkeeper. Players uose sticks made oot o wid, carbon fibre, fibergless or a combination o carbon fibre and fibre gless in different quantities (wi the heicher carbon fibre stick bein mair expensive an less likely tae break) tae hit a roond, haurd, rubber like baw. The lenth of the stick depends on the player's indiveedual hicht.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
(en) Pagel W.: Paracelsus and the neoplatonic and gnostic tradition, Ambix, Volume 8, Number 3, October 1960 , p. 125-166(42). Modèl:DOI Texte intégral
In August 2011, Page announced that Google would spend $12.5 billion to acquire Motorola Mobility. The purchase was primarily motivated by Google's need to secure patents to protect Android from lawsuits by companies including Apple Inc. Page wrote on Google's official blog on August 15, 2011 that "companies including Microsoft and Apple are banding together in anti-competitive patent attacks on Android. The United States Department of Justice had to intervene in the results of one recent patent auction to "protect competition and innovation in the open source software community"... Our acquisition of Motorola will increase competition by strengthening Google’s patent portfolio, which will enable us to better protect Android from anti-competitive threats from Microsoft, Apple and other companies".
Preserving heritage : a festschrift for C. Richard Beam / ed. by Joshua R. Brown and Leroy T. Hopkins, Jr. [Lawrence, Kan.]: Society for German-American Studies, 2006
Lemi Asefa Lemi Asefa is an Ethiopian famous Lawyer, Chef & blogger. Lemi born at one of the wonderful oldest Ethiopian . His mother Tadelech Geleta was Teacher while his Father Asefa Geleta was also English teacher at Olika Dingil and He known as one of greatest politician of the City and also he was a candidate for 2010 Ethiopian election by representing OFDN political party
Mo, J., Wang W.,Huang Z., Huang X., Xu X. 2006. A Basal Titanosauriform from the Early Cretaceous of Guangxi, China. Acta Geologica Sinica, toum: 80, nüm:4, pads: 486-489.
In addition to differences in circulation, the developing fetus also employs a different type of oxygen transport molecule than adults (adults use adult hemoglobin). Fetal hemoglobin enhances the fetus' ability to draw oxygen from the placenta. Its dissociation curve to oxygen is shifted to the left, meaning that it will take up oxygen at a lower concentration than adult hemoglobin will. This enables fetal hemoglobin to absorb oxygen from adult hemoglobin in the placenta, which has a lower pressure of oxygen than at the lungs.
Walsall Wood leebrar is locatit in the umwhile Neighbourhuid Office biggin at the junction o Coppice Road an Lichfield Road. This replaces the umwhile leebrar biggin on Lichfield Road.
VIII. "to be outstanding examples representing major stages of earth's history, including the record of life, significant on-going geological processes in the development of landforms, or significant geomorphic or physiographic features";
(en) Gravenstein, J. S.: Paracelsus and His Contributions to Anesthesia, Anesthesiology, November/December 1965 - Volume 26, Issue 6, 805-11 Texte disponible en pdf
She joined the board of Carlson in 1973. After her father's death in 1999, she took over as CEO. She shares ownership of the company with her sister Barbara Carlson Gage.
Kollines (Greek: Κολλίναις) is a village and a community in the municipal unit of Skiritida, Arcadia, Greece. It is situated in the green mountains near the border with Laconia. The community consists of the main village Kollines (population 263 in 2011) and the small villages Achouri (pop. 2) and Voutouchos (pop. 2). It is located 1 km east of Agia Varvara, 9 km south of Vlachokerasia and 25 km south of Tripoli.
The Volkswagen Beetle, offeecially the Volkswagen Type 1, or informally the Volkswagen Bug, is an economy caur manufactured an mercatit bi German automaker Volkswagen (VW) frae 1938 till 2003.
In classical mechanics, the kinetic energy o a non-rotatin object o mass m travelin at a speed v is ½ mv². In relativistic mechanics, this is anly a guid approximation when v is much less nor the speed o licht.
Others Voices:Jack AngelCorey BurtonPhilip L. ClarkeJennifer DarlingDebi DerryberryBruce GoochJerry HouserVera LockwoodSherry LynnMickie McGowanPatrick PinneyPhil Proctor
Bulileka Sanatan College, Labasa ke ek school hae jiske 1968 me suruu karaa gais rahaa. Iske pahile Bulileka Junior Secondary School ke naam se jaana jaawat rahaa. Ii Collegeme 500 larrkan parrhe hae, jisme se 400 Hindustani aur baaki Kaiviti hae. In addition to that there are 34 teachers, a burser, typist, a librarian, a machinist, a culture teacher, gardener and watchman. Furthermore, there are two steams of form 1 and 2. There are four streams of form 3 and three streams of form 4, form 5 and form 6. There are two streams of form 7.
In 2009 Page began purchasing properties and tearing down homes adjacent to his home in Palo Alto to make room for a large ecohouse. The existing buildings were "deconstructed" and the materials donated for reuse. The ecohouse was designed to "minimize the impact on the environment." Page worked with an arborist to replace some trees that were in poor health with others that used less water to maintain. Page also applied for Green Point Certification, with points given for use of recycled and low or no-VOC (volatile organic compound) materials and for a roof garden with solar panels. The house's exterior features zinc cladding and plenty of windows, including a wall of sliding-glass doors in the rear. It also includes eco-friendly elements such as permeable paving in the parking court and a pervious path through the trees on the property. The 6,000-sq ft house also observes other green home design features such as organic architecture building materials and low volatile organic compound paint.
In 1999, the company announced plans to port the OS to machines such as the Jornada sub-notebook. A number of planned ports did not come to fruition.
Ta'n cammag Albinagh (ny camanachd) feer ennoil ayns Gaeltaght ny h-Albey, as ta thousaneyn dy chronneyderyn ec ram cloiaghyn, chammah as ec kione-chloie yn phreeu-hournamint, y Cappan Camanachd.
U.S. National income by type of income, 1959-2005 (+ button to enlarge) from 2006 Economic Report of the President via Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.
'Sy 21oo eash, t'ad cur geill da myr bun bea-gheesyl. Ta ooill ry-gheddyn ass ny rassyn echey, as t'eh gollrish ooill lus ny greiney. Hooar ronsaghey dy vel eh ny share na ooill reap bentyn rish cormid bree as jeeyl çhymbyllagh.
The Dead Inside ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Travis Betz ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Sarah Lassez, Dustin Fasching acting kiye the.
As many of you are aware, the Wikimedia Board of Trustees recently initiated important changes in the way that money is being distributed within the Wikimedia movement. As part of this, a new community-led "Funds Dissemination Committee" (FDC) is currently being set up. Already in 2012-13, its recommendations will guide the decisions about the distribution of over 10 million US dollars among the Foundation, chapters and other eligible entities.
The novel Chi Ewere Ehihe Jie, written, by J. U. Tagbo Nzeako, was edited by F. C. Ogbalu, B.Sc., Econ. (Lond.), University Publishing Company (Printed at Varsity Industrial Press, 11 Central School Road, Onitsha), yet undated, but approximately written in 1980 (?).
AnIbindi challenge was to discuss emerging issues in a global Urubuga with different perspectives, for example, developed and developing countries realities; democratic and non-democratic political regimes, etc.
Sen, Nirupa (2003), "Indian success stories in use of Space tools for social development", Current Science, 84 (4): 489-490, Bangalore: Indian Academy of Sciences.
Katsikas started his career in the youth ranks of Iraklis. He was brought there, when he was eight years old, by his father, a former player of Iraklis.
Alejandro Vela (born 28 Mairch 1984 in Cancún, Quintana Roo) is a Mexican fitbaa striker who currently plays for Cruz Azul in the Liga MX, haein previously played for Chivas de Guadalajara an Jaguares.
A wiki enables documents to be written collaboratively, in a simple markup language using a web browser. A single page in a wiki website is referred to as a "wiki page", while the entire collection of pages, which are usually well interconnected by hyperlinks, is "the wiki". A wiki is essentially a database for creating, browsing, and searching through information.
The successful annexation of Dadra and Nagar Haveli provided the dormant Goa anti-colonial movement with renewed vigour and motivation to continue the anti-colonial struggle.प्रारूप:Citation needed On 15 August 1954, hundreds of people crossed the Portuguese Goan borders, defying a ban by the Indian government on participating in Satyagrahas. The Portuguese responded to the action by injuring and fatally shooting many Satyagrahis.
A corymb is similar to a panicle with the same branching structure, but with the lower flowers having longer stems, thus giving a flattish top superficially resembling an umbel. Many species in the Maloideae, such as hawthorns and rowans, produce their flowers in corymbs.
Apologies for English, where this is posted on a non-English project. We thought it was more important to get the consultation translated as much as possible, and good headway has been made there in some languages. There is still much to do, however! We created m:2016 Strategy/Translations to try to help coordinate what needs translation and what progress is being made. :)
The medium-frame Colt Lightning Magazine Rifle was manufactured between 1884 and 1904. It was the first slide-action rifle offered by Colt. Colt records indicate 89,777 were produced, in .32-20, .38-40, and .44-40 as a companion arm to the Colt Single Action Army revolver. Two versions were offered: a rifle with a 26 in (66 cm) barrel and 15-round magazine, and a carbine with a 20 in (51 cm) barrel and 12-round magazine. The San Francisco Police Department acquired 401 rifles. All had 26 in (66 cm) round .44-40 barrels and bore S.F.P 1 through S.F.P 401 stampings on the lower tang.
European and U.S. reformers exposed the conditions in the Congo Free State to the public through the Congo Reform Association. Also active in exposing the activities of the Congo Free State was the author Arthur Conan Doyle, whose book The Crime of the Congo was widely read in the early 1900s. By 1908, public pressure and diplomatic manoeuvres led to the end of Leopold II's rule and to the annexation of the Congo as a colony of Belgium, known as the Belgian Congo.
While distinctive as a species itself, the generic placement of these plants has differed in various botanical treatments. When the genus Cornus is taken broadly, as done here, this species is Cornus canadensis. However, if Cornus is treated in a narrower sense, excluding this species, it can instead be classified as Chamaepericlymenum canadense or as Cornella canadensis.
Tin is blōmlic dāg oft gefunden in eorðe. Ǣr wǣron mǣst oran in Brytenlande, on Cornwealle and on Defenum ac nū sind Yunnan in Cīnan, Indonesie and Peru his mǣstan willan.
In a November 2014 interview, Page stated that he prioritized the maintenance of his "deep knowledge" of Google's products and breadth of projects, as it had been a key motivating factor for team members. In relation to his then role as the company's CEO, Page said: "I think my job as CEO—I feel like it’s always to be pushing people ahead."
Va ny prowaltyssyn stiurut ec Hershey as Chase er y vacteyrofagagh T2, veerys va'n strughtoor echey taishbynit liorish mynreayrtaght lectraneagh. Cha nel 'sy vacteyrofagagh agh shlig phroteenagh lesh y stoo gien-oaylleeagh çheusthie j'ee. Ta'n bacteyrofagagh doghaney bacteyr lesh lhiantag rish y chraitnys mooie echey, as tilgey stiagh y stoo gien-oaylleeagh echey. Ta'n tilgey stiagh shen cur lesh stoo gien-oaylleeagh y vacteyr veeryssyn ny smoo y yannoo, as yn obbraghey shen faagail y hlig follym echey lhiantit hug y vacteyr.
It wis locatit in the upper reach o El Dorado Canyon, juist belaw the present day location o Nelson in Clark Coonty, Nevada. Its ore wis transportit bi steamboats o the Colorado River
A significant part of the closing ceremony was the exchange of the Olympic flag of the Antwerp games between the mayor of Athens and the mayor of Beijing, host city of the next Olympic games. After the flag exchange a presentation from the Beijing delegation presented a glimpse into Chinese culture for the world to see. Beijing University students (who were at first incorrectly cited as the Twelve Girls Band) sang Mo Li Hua (Jasmine Flower) and the medal ceremony for the last event of the Olympics, the men's marathon, was conducted, with Stefano Baldini from Italy as the winner.
James Clerk Maxwell (janam 13 June 1831 Edinburgh me – maut 5 November 1879) ek Scottish mathematician, physicist aur Maxwell's equations ke paawe waala rahaa.
•I found it when I was searching othersThere is no google fack link but if u have mind on it visit googleand type this text Actually there are no fack links.Hakuna google fack link but kune mamwe malinks ari semi-facked there are not yet finished.Haasati apera kuvadzirwa visit here bicotas
Ta lhune braghee ny yough ta jeant ass syrup braih oarn, shugyr, ushtey, jiastyn as lus y lhionney. T'eh feer ennoil ayns Israel raad t'eh enmyssit "lhune doo". She Malzbier yn ennym ta currit er 'sy Ghermaanish, as ta markyn ennoil ayn goaill stiagh Vitamalz. Ta markyn ennoil ayns Israel goaill stiagh Nesher as Goldstar. Ta sorçhyn anchasley jeh feer ennoil ayns çheeraghyn Ladjynagh as Caribagh. Ta markyn Affrickagh Heear goaill stiagh lheid as Guinness Malt, Amstel Malt, Maltex, a.r.e. as t'ad er creck myr joughinyn bree.
Edward W. Walker: No peace, no war in the Caucasus. Secessionist conflicts in Chechnya, Abkhazia and Nagorno-Karabakh. Harvard University, Cambridge Mass 1998.
Datt gamvgire vostichea modim axil'lea hea thollak namna mell'lli, ti thoinchea thollavea razachea kil'lean. Punn 1891 vorsa jen'na hanga brittixamni aple rajy vosoilem ten'nach tankam nograchem rup mell'llem. Vistar 240 50’ ut'tor 930 59 udent, loksonkhea: 10,0,366 (1971).Monnipur rajeachem hem ek somskritik ani vepari kendr. Hangachea kolakusorichea vostunk ani hatmagavelea kopddeank namna asa. Monnipuri nrityokolechem hem mullpitth somzotat. Toxench ‘polo’ khellachem hem mullsthan astolem soi somoz asa.
McFarland, Mark. 2011. "Igor Stravinsky." In Oxford Bibliographies Online: Music, edited by Bruce Gustavson. New York: Oxford University Press.
The OTA mechanism requires the existing software and hardware of the target device to support the féature, namely the receipt and installation of new software received via the wireless network from the provider.
She slieau as keyll eddyr Inji Brekka, Cronk y Voddee as Boaldyn ayns mean Vannin eh Kolrinn (Baarle: Colden). Ta'n slieau hene 487 m (1,598 tr) er yrjid.
Nacionalna razuznavatelna sluzhba (NRS) (National Intelligence Service) - overseas intelligence gathering service under presidential supervision
1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, 1934, 1935, 1945, 1946, 1947, 1949, 1950, 1952, 1953, 1954, 1955, 1956, 1957, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1973, 1976, 1980, 1982, 1983, 1987, 1991, 1993, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007
Nicu Romică Şerban (born January 18, 1970) is a Romanian sprint canoer who competed from the early 1990s to the mid-2000s (decade). He won seven medals at the ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships with five silvers (K-2 200 m: 1994, 1995, 2003; K-4 500 m: 2001, 2003) and two bronzes (K-2 200 m: 1998, K-4 1000 m: 1999).
原子筆喺現代文化之中無處不在。While other forms of pen are available, ballpoint pens are certainly the most common and almost every household is likely to have several. The fact that they are so cheaply available (costing from just a few cents/pence to produce) and so convenient to use means they are often to be found on desks and also in pockets, handbags, purses, bags and in cars — almost anywhere where one could conceivably need to use a pen. Ballpoint pens are often provided free by businesses as a form of advertising — printed with a company's name, a ballpoint pen is a relatively low cost advertisement that is highly effective (customers will use, and therefore see, a pen on a daily basis). Businesses and charities may also include ballpoint pens in direct mail mailings in order to increase a customer's interest in the mailing.
Ezekwesili started off in the Olusegun Obasanjo administration as the Pioneer head of the Budget Monitoring and Price Intelligence Unit (aka Due Process Unit). It was in this position that she earned the sobriquet of "Madam Due Process" for the outstanding work she led a team of professionals to do in sanitising public procurement or contracting at the Federal level in Nigeria. She was the architect of the Bureau for Public Procurement legislation, the NEITI legislation and the new Minerals and Mining legislation during her six and a half years stint in government.
Sirakachem Pustok / Sirach 23 : 19 - To mon’xachê nodrek bhieta. Punn, Sorvesporachi nodor suria poros dha pavttinim odik porzollit mhunnon taka khobor na. Mon’xachea protek kortubacher To apli chotur nodor dovorta. Kedeai guttache konnxe tachê nodrek poddtat. / fearing only human eyes. He does not realize that the eyes of the Lord, ten thousand times brighter than the sun, Observe every step taken and peer into hidden corners.
“Indeed the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing until it divides soul from spirit, joints from marrow; it is able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart” – Hebrews. 4:12
Ensenada Blanca is a commonty o Loreto Municipality, Baja California Sur, Mexico. It is situatit aboot 45 km sooth o Loreto. It haed a 2010 census population o 255 inhabitants. It is the second-largest community in Loreto Municipality, after Loreto, the municipal seat.
The Professor, written before Jane Eyre, submitted at first along with Wuthering Heights and Agnes Grey, then separately, and rejected in either form by many publishing houses, published posthumously in 1857
Musical Instrument Samples - University of Iowa Electronic Music Studios; anechoic recordings of violin sounds, both arco and pizzicato at various dynamics.
Each week, The NFL on Westwood One features two games from the Sunday afternoon lineup, with one beginning at 1:00 PM and one at 4:25 PM. Plantilla:See also
Mast, C. Z. and Robert E. Simpson (1942). Annals of the Conestoga Valley in Lancaster, Berks and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania. Scottdale, Pennsilfaani : Mennonite Publishing House.
Clague, John et al. (2006) "Open Letter by INQUA Executive Committee" Quaternary Perspective, the INQUA Newsletter International Union for Quaternary Research 16(1)
Ababa a sarita: "Dagiti Bulong iti Sab-ok ti Angin", "Paraiso", "Kir-is", "Super Paddayat", "Kalintegan iti Suelas ti Sapatos", "alat tabukol".
Niemeyer, B., 1997, Early 20th-century restorations and modern conservation treatments on archaeological silver objects, Metal 95, Proceedings of the International Conference on Metals Conservation (eds. I.D. MacLeod, S.L. Pennec and L. Robbiola), 190-195, James & James (Science Publishers) Ltd, London, U.K.
Fetuses are not capable of feeling pain at the beginning of the fetal stage, and may not be able to feel pain until the third trimester. At this point in development, uncontrolled movements and twitches occur as muscles, the brain and pathways begin to develop.
Snijders, Paul, 'Ries, Leopold Abraham', in: Robert Aldrich en Garry Wotherspoon (redactie), Who's Who in Gay & Lesbian History. London/ New York, 2001.
Ross, Malcolm (2005), "Pronouns as a preliminary diagnostic for grouping Papuan languages", iti Andrew Pawley; Robert Attenborough; Robin Hide; Jack Golson, Papuan pasts: cultural, linguistic and biological histories of Papuan-speaking peoples, Canberra: Pacific Linguistics, pp. 15–66
On May 4, 1974, Headley, along with freelance writer Donald Freed, held a press conference in San Francisco. They presented 400 pages of documentation of their findings, some of which included:
The only thing which completely was an amazement to me and brought me to photography was the work of Munkacsi. When I saw the photograph of Munkacsi of the black kids running in a wave I couldn't believe such a thing could be caught with the camera. I said damn it, I took my camera and went out into the street.
Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo ke capital city hae. Ii Africa ke tiisr asab se barraa city hae. Hian pe saat aur aadha million log rahe hae. Kinshasa city, Democratic Republic of the Congo ke Kinshasa Province me hae.
Steven A. Jacobson (2005), History of the Naukan Yupik Eskimo dictionary with implications for a future Siberian Yupik dictionary, Études/Inuit/Studies 29 (1–2):149-161
Historically, locksmiths constructed or repaired an entire lock, including its constituent parts. The rise of cheap mass production has made this less common; the vast majority of locks are repaired through like-for-like replacements, high-security safes and strongboxes being the most common exception. Many locksmiths also work on any existing door hardware, including door closers, hinges, electric strikes, and frame repairs, or service electronic locks by making keys for transponder-equipped vehicles and implementing access control systems.
On Neoliberalism: An Interview with Takis Fotopoulos. This 13-parts video deals with the rise of the neoliberal phase of modernity (mid 70s – now) and the consequent emergence of Neoliberal Globalisation, which was established formally in UK with the rise of Thatcherism and in US with the rise of Reaganomics, although the systemic structural trends for it took off much earlier, with the opening of markets and the huge expansion of multinational corporations. (8 May 2009)
Abrama wakahamba, echiangira kuenda Negebhi: Then Abram traveled on, continuing toward the Negev. (Genesis 12:9 kubva muBhaibheri reChiNdau).
The coolest layer of the Sun is the temperature minimum region about 500km above the photosphere. It is about 4,000 kelvins. It is the only part of the Sun cool enough to support simple molecules such as carbon monoxide and water; all other parts of the Sun are hot enough to break chemical bonds.
William Cole, First and Otherwise Notable Editions of Medieval French Texts Printed from 1742 to 1874: A Bibliographical Catalogue of My Collection, Sitges: Cole & Contreras, 2005.
By NFL broadcasting rules, CBS must broadcast all regional games in the visiting team's home market (and, if sold out, the city the game is being played in), in its entirety, regardless if the game has a close outcome or is a blowout. However, if the game is a blowout, it is allowed to cut to a game with a more competitive outcome in a market that is within the 75-mile blackout radius without it being the home market itself. If a local game is blacked out, the local CBS affiliate is not allowed to show any other football game during the scheduled time of the home team's game.
In the 1960s and early '70s, CBS used a marching band-like composition called "Confidence" (taken from Leon Carr's score from the 1964 off-Broadway musical The Secret Life of Walter Mitty) as their theme.
Margh (Equus caballus) yw bronnvil veur lowr ow perghenni dhe onan a seyth eghenn an genus Equus. Yma dhedha karnow yn-dann aga threys ha mongow orth aga honnaow. Margh tevesik a boes a-dro dhe 650 kg.
During his 12 seasons with the Giants (136 regular season games) Gifford had 3,609 rushing yards and 34 touchdowns in 840 carries; he also had 367 receptions for 5,434 yards and 43 touchdowns. Gifford completed 29 of the 63 passes he threw for 823 yards and 14 touchdowns with 6 interceptions. The 14 touchdowns is the most among any non-quarterback in NFL history; the 6 interceptions is tied with Walter Payton for most thrown by a non-quarterback.
Dorinda threatens Gator's former whores to keep them in line. Dorinda offers Gator's competing pimps a deal: whoever kills Truck gets to replace Gator while she runs the stable. The only pimp interested in the violence is Harvard Blue (Kotto). Truck survives several ambushes by Blue's goons.
Curtis Seltzer, Fire in the Hole: Miners and Managers in the American Coal Industry (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1985), conflict in the coal industry to the 1980s.
All the Boys Are Called Patrick ek 1959 mein bana French film hain. Yea film France mein Jean-Luc Godard ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jean-Claude Brialy, Anne Collette, Nicole Berger acting kiye the.
(Kiingereza) A Film Maker with a Sound Background An essay on Welles' extensive radio work and its innovative influence on filmmaking via Citizen Kane.
(en) Clinical analysis of activity of the native maternity department of the Hôpital Vicicongo at Aketi during 1951. In: Annales de la Société Belges de Médecine Tropicale. 1952 Jun;32(3):313-20.
Hymn offerings to Sri Ramakrsna & the Holy Mother, by Swami Abhedananda, Ramakrishna Vedanta Centre, Ramakrishna Math. Pub. by Sri Ramakrsna Math, 1988.
Shaykh Gibril Haddad is regarded as an accomplished and influential Islamic scholar, hadith expert (muhaddith), religious leader, author, and translator of classical Islamic texts. He holds ijazas from over 150 scholars across the Muslim world and has translated and published over 30 works. In 2009, he was listed amongst the 500 Most Influential Muslims In The World. He has been a teacher on the traditional online Qibla Islamic institute (formerly SunniPath) and is a contributor to the website eshaykh.com, which offers guidance and traditional teachings on various aspects of Islam. He is an editor of the Integrated Encyclopedia of the Qurʾān (IEQ) and is also a visiting fellow at the Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddin Center for Islamic Studies, University Brunei Darussalam.
She slieau er coose Atlantagh Choontae Ghoon ny Ghoal, Nerin, eh Sliabh Liag (Yernish son "Slieau Lhiack"; Baarle: Slieve League). T'eh shassoo 601 m (1,972 tr) er yrjid as eh girree jeeragh magh veih'n 'aarkey. Rere shen, ta fir jeh ny h-eayninyn marrey s'yrjey 'syn Oarpey ayn.
Solar Mass Loss, the Astronomical Unit, and the Scale of the Solar System (a discussion of the relation between the AU and other quantities)
ACTS Nederland BV continued to use its five 1200 class locomotives in freight and charter service until 2010. Locomotive 1253 was taken out of service in 2003 and was used as a parts donor, while locomotive 1252 was taken out of service in 2007. The remaining three locomotives were withdrawn in 2009-10 by ACTS and all except parts donor 1253 were sold to Euro-Express-Treincharter BV (EETC).
Sayed Abdul Khaiyum , Fiji ke ek wakiil aur politician rahaa. 1992 ke election me uu National Federation Party ke ticket pe Nasinu South/Colo-i-Suva Indian Constituency se Fiji ke House of Representatives ke member banaa. Uu 1999 talak House of Representatives ke member rahaa.
Ma KS ow qwil devnyth a hat stubm (`) rag dysqwedhes bogalen berr dyrewl, ha to bian (^) rag bogalen hir dyrewl. Ma KS ow tevnydhya â le mayma oa i'n FSS.
Sàba, v.i. to incubate, to sit on eggs in order to hatch them (of hens), to brood on eggs. Adìyẹ yìí ń sàba (This hen is brooding on her eggs)
SA-6 Gainful- The Indian Army has sought to upgrade its SA-6 Kvadrat and SA-8 Missile systems whilst the Akash gets ready. The Indian magazine "Strategic Affairs " (No. 0011/ Issue: December 16) noted: "Poland has won an order worth $200 m from India to upgrade 100 Kvadrat (SA6) and 50 OSA-AKM (SA8) mobile surface to air missiles. The contract made public in August, is to be completed by 2002. The upgrades include integration of new radars, communications and control systems, improvements to the launch vehicle including new power packs. The Kvadrat upgrade includes new electronics for better electronic counter measures, passive infra-red search and track sensors."
Berguedà (in Catalan: El Berguedà) is an inland comarca (coonty) in Catalonie, Spain, leein pairtly in the Pyrenees an Pre-Pyrenees, an pairtly in the Catalan Central Depression.
A wiki (Àtụ:Pron-en Àtụ:Respell) is a website that allows the easy creation and editing of any number of interlinked web pages via a web browser using a simplified markup language or a WYSIWYG text editor. Wikis are typically powered by wiki software and are often used to create collaborative websites, to power community websites, for personal note taking, in corporate intranets, and in knowledge management systems.
Jacques Nompar de Caumont, Duke o La Force (30 December 1558 – 10 Mey 1652) wis a french nobleman, he wis created a Marshal o Fraunce bi Keeng Louis XIII. He wis also the grandfaither o the Duke o Lauzun. He wis known as the Maréchal de La Force. He would be a grandfaither o the Duke o Lauun (secret husband o La Grande Mademoiselle, cousin o Louis XIV)
A second program, NFL Insider, runs from the beginning of the season through to the Super Bowl, is a program hosted by Sunday doubleheader analysts Mark Malone and Dan Reeves and CBS television's Steve Tasker, where the hosts provide analysis of the week, present highlights of the previous week's action, and interview players and coaches.
ARCHER, M. 1976a. Miocene marsupicarnivores (Marsupialia) from central South Australia, Ankotarinja tirarensis gen. et. sp. nov., Keeuna woodburnei gen. et. sp. nov., and their significance in terms of early marsupial radiations. Transactions of the Royal Society of South Australia 100: 53-73.
Appendicitis’ apparently idiopathic nature has led to many different theories explaining its occurrence. One theory regarding the cause of appendicitis, sometimes facetiously referred to as "the porcelain throne theory”, was proposed by Dr. Denis Burkitt, who developed the theory after observing low rates of appendicitis in Uganda. He proposed two causes for this: one, the Africans ate a diet high in fiber, and two, they used squat toilets rather than seat toilets. Most health practitioners accept Dr. Burkitt's first cause as a contributing factor, but are unfamiliar with the second one, which has never been tested.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
Stiles, Patrick V. (2013). The Pan-West Germanic Isoglosses and the Subrelationships of West Germanic to Other Branches. In Unity and Diversity in West Germanic, I. Special issue of NOWELE 66:1 (2013), Nielsen, Hans Frede and Patrick V. Stiles (eds.), 5 ff.
James Sargent described the first successful key-changeable combination lock in 1857. His lock became popular with safe manufacturers and the United States Treasury Department. In 1873, he patented a time lock mechanism, the prototype for those used in contemporary bank vaults.
The only pre-requisite is for the volunteer to actually live in the country and to have access to at least one donation method that we offer for that country (mainly credit/debit card, but also real time banking like IDEAL, E-wallets, etc...) so we can do a live test and see if the donation goes through. **All volunteers will be reimbursed of the donations that eventually succeed (and they will be very low amounts, like 1-2 dollars)**
Casoria ([kaˈzɔːrja]) is a comune (municipality) in the Metropolitan Ceety o Naples in the Italian region Campanie, locatit aboot 5 kilometres (3 miles) northeast o Naples.
The most common staple crops consumed during Han were wheat, barley, foxtail millet, proso millet, rice, and beans. Commonly eaten fruits and vegetables included chestnuts, pears, plums, peaches, melons, apricots, strawberries, red bayberries, jujubes, calabash, bamboo shoots, mustard plant and taro. Domesticated animals that were also eaten included chickens, Mandarin ducks, geese, cows, sheep, pigs, camels and dogs (various types were bred specifically for food, while most were used as pets). Turtles and fish were taken from streams and lakes. Commonly hunted game, such as owl, pheasant, magpie, sika deer, and Chinese Bamboo Partridge were consumed. Seasonings included sugar, honey, salt and soy sauce. Beer and wine were regularly consumed.
Clothier Harbor (62°22′S 59°40′W) is a small harbor on the northwest side of Robert Island, 1.5 nautical miles (3 km) northeast of the west end of the island, in the South Shetland Islands. It was named by American sealers in about 1820 after the sealing vessel Clothier, under Captain Alexander Clark, one of the several American sealing vessels headquartered at this harbor during the 1820–21 season. The Clothier went aground here and sank on December 9, 1820.
Manthaturath (31 December 1819 - 7 March 1837) (Regent for Anurutha from 1817 until 31 December 1819; lives as a monk in Bangkok from 1825 until 1826, leaving Luang Phra Bang to be administered by Thai officials)
The worst thing you can do is stop someone from doing something by saying, "No. Period." If you say no, you have to help them find a better way to get it done.
The library also welcomes a large range of activities put in place by the cultural department of the city. Currently, the hours of opening concern the following days: Tuesday from 2pm to 7pm, Wednesday 10am – 12:30am and 2pm to 6pm, Thursday 2pm – 6pm, and Sunday 10am – 12:30am and 2pm – 6pm.
Already has a bot flag (Y/N) : Yes, alswiki,arwiki,bnwiki,brwiki,bswiki,cswiki,dewiki,dvwiki,enwiki,eswiki,fiu_vrowiki,fiwiki,frwiki,fywiki,glwiki,idwiki,iswiki,itwiki,jawiki,kshwiki,ltwiki,mrwiki,mtwiki,ndswiki,nlwiki,nnwiki,plwiki,ptwiki,rowiki,ruwiki,simplewiki,slwiki,sqwiki,srwiki,trwiki,ukwiki,viwiki,wuuwiki,zh_yuewiki, commons,incubator,wikispecies,global bot =(flag on 271 of 273 wikipedia interwiki projects)
Jesus spoke to them saying, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life.” - John. 8:12
Fiji me football (soccer) ke 26th Battle of the Giants tournament Ba ke Govind Park me, 30 July, 31 July, 1 August aur 8 August ke khela gais rahaa, jiske final me Rewa, Nadi ke 2-0 se harais.
The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966) is a follow-up to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, concerning civil and political rights.
Coburn had a good role in Hell Is for Heroes (1962), a war movie with Steve McQueen. Coburn followed this with another war film with McQueen, The Great Escape (1963), directed by Sturges for the Mirisches; Coburn played an Australian. For the Mirisches, Coburn narrated Kings of the Sun (1963).
Chocó is a depairtment o Colombie kent for its lairge Afro-Colombie population. It is in the wast o the kintra, an is the anerlie Colombie depairtment tae hae coastlines on baith the Paceefic Ocean an the Atlantic Ocean. It haes aw o Colombie's border wi Panama an aw. Its caipital is Quibdó.
Louis B. Sohn & Thomas Buergenthal (ed.) The movement of persons across borders, Washington, D.C : American Society of International Law, 1992
Basham, A. L. (1954). The Wonder That Was India: A Survey of the Culture of the Indian Sub-Continent Before The Coming of the Muslims. New York: Grove Press, Inc.,.
Bookmarca Portal carried out by the Public Library of Treviso on websites relating with Treviso and the territory of the province of Treviso
Ii des me dher jaat ke log rahe hae, jaise ki Africans, Europeans, Arbii, Indians, aur Chinese. Des ke sab se barraa dharam Christianity aur Hinduism hae. Aur dharam me Islam aur African dharam hae.
Chidomboromak nachache sortint xivan tika haroili, dekhun ti mathear xivling dharonn korta, oxi kotha asa. Mohixasurak bhodrokalinuch marla, oxem-i kainkodden mhollam.
A.B. Nichols Panama Canal Collection at the Linda Hall Library Archival collection of maps, blueprints, photographs, letters, and other documents, collected by Aurin B. Nichols, an engineer who worked on the canal project through from 1899 until its completion.
The local admeenistration o the oblast' is controlled bi the Poltava Oblast Rada. The govrenor o the oblast’ is the Poltava Oblast’ Rada speaker, appointit bi the Preses o Ukraine.
From Givet, the river is canalized over a distance of 272 kilometers. The canalized Meuse used to be called the "Canal de l'Est - Branche Nord" but was recently rebaptized into "Canal de la Meuse". The waterway can be used by the smallest barges that are still in use commercially (almost 40 meters long and just over 5 meters wide). Just upstream of the town of Commercy, the Canal de la Meuse connects with the Canal de la Marne au Rhin by means of a short diversion canal. (Source: NoorderSoft Waterways database)
The separate existence of the high school began in 1885, when the Trustees decided "that in order to increase the efficiency of the Columbia School a new class of a higher grade shall be formed at the commencement of the coming term to be taught by the Principal." Lower grades continued to be housed at Columbia. The Trustees' minutes of May 31, 1888, reflect the principal's request "that a diploma be voted to Miss Etta A. Kilburn" and that, "on motion, a diploma was voted to Miss Kilburn, the first graduate of the high school.
Rank and pynts afore are as of 3 Julie 2017. Because the tournament takes place ane week later than in 2016, pynts defendin includes results frae baith the 2016 Wimbledon Championships an the tournaments frae the week of 11 Julie 2016 (Bucharest and Gstaad).
D'León studied nine years at the Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes in Nicaragua under its director Rodrigo Peñalba. His early inspiration were the frescos of Pompeii, where he saw the use of cross-hatching and applied this technique to his love of the Impressionist school.
1895, 1896, 1898, 1899, 1900, 1906, 1908, 1909, 1913, 1916, 1917, 1922, 1924, 1925, 1930, 1937, 1941, 1945, 1949, 1950, 1951, 1958, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1964, 1965, 1967, 1968, 1971, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1993, 2001, 2008
Essex (/[unsupported input]ˈɛsᵻks/) is a ceremonial an nan-metropolitan coonty in the East o Ingland, an ane o the hame coonties. Essex County Council is the principal local authority for hintle o the coonty, sharin functions wi twal destrict cooncils. The coonty toun is Chelmsford. The soothren Essex burghs o Thurrock an Southend-on-Sea are govrened separately as unitar authorities. It wis established in antiquity an formit the eastren portion o the Kinrick o Essex. Sections o the coonty closer tae Lunnon are pairt o the Metropolitan Green Belt, which prohibits development. It is the location o the regionally significant Lakeside Shopping Centre an London Stansted Airport; an the new touns o Basildon an Harlow.
Gary Hart started out as a wrestler in 1960 in Chicago at the Marigold Arena. In the late 1960s, he became a manager called "Playboy" Gary Hart. During the late 1960s, he managed The Spoiler, as well as the tag team duo The Spoilers, which consisted of Spoilers #1 (Don Jardine) and #2 (Smasher Sloan). They won several tag team titles in 1968 and 1969 under Hart's guidance.
Adolf Birkhofer, Germany, Professor Emeritus, Technical University of Munich; member, INSAG; former chair, German Reactor Safety Commission; former chair, Committee on Safety of Nuclear Installations of OECD
Hillcrest lost its independent Town Board status in 1996 and was made subject to administration by the Outer West Local Council - a substructure council of the then Durban Unicity. In 2000, the Outer West Local Council, along with other local councils, was disestablished and were replaced by the single eThekwini Municipality encompassing the entire Durban metropolitan area.
Second, they write with the greatest ink flow when perpendicular to the paper, but as the angle is increased the line width gradually decreases; at some angle, when the edge of the ball socket brushes against the surface of the paper, the line width is reduced to zero and the pen ceases to write. By contrast, a rollerball pen has a thin line when perpendicular to the paper, but the line width increases suddenly as the angle is increased and a blob forms between the tip of the ball and the edge of the socket.
Wiseman, T. P. 2008. "Octavia and the Phantom Genre." in Unwritten Rome. Exeter: University of Exeter Press : cap. duodecimum.Recensio critica
Ta Rheynn Treealys, Arraghey as Ynsaghey Beayn ny h-Albey freggyrtagh son moggyl arraghey ny h-Albey, as she Transport Scotland (Arraghey ny h-Albey) yn jantys ta freggyrtagh rish Screeudeyr Arrey Argidys as Bishaghey Yn-Ymmyrkey ry hoi raaidyn mooarey as moggylyn raaidyn yiarn ny h-Albey. Ta mygeayrt 340 stashoonyn traenagh ayns moggyl raad yiarn ny h-Albey as 3,000 kilometeryn raaidyn yiarn lesh ny smoo na 62 villioon troailtee er dagh blein.
Escape from New York ek 1981 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK, USA mein John Carpenter ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Kurt Russell, Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasence acting kiye the.
Izwi rokuti yakadara rinoreva kutaura nenzira yakajeka, zvichinatsa kunzwisisika - (of speech that is clearly stated and understandable; explicit).
The Depairtment o Cochabamba is dividit intae 16 provinces (provincias) which are further subdividit intae 47 municipalities (municipios) an - on the fowert level - intae 144 cantons.
PAIS Alliance—Spaingie: Alianza PAIS (Patria Altiva i Soberana, Proud an Sovereign Fatherland; país an aa means "kintra")—is a socialist poleetical movement in Ecuador led bi the incumbent Preses o Ecuador Rafael Correa.
Dexter, Miriam Robbins and Edgar C. Polomé, eds. 1997, "Varia on the Indo-European Past: Papers in Memory of Marija Gimbutas." Journal of Indo-European Studies Monograph #19. Washington, DC: The Institute for the Study of Man.
Maclean, Arthur John (1895). Grammar of the dialects of vernacular Syriac: as spoken by the Eastern Syrians of Kurdistan, north-west Persia, and the Plain of Mosul: with notices of the vernacular of the Jews of Azerbaijan and of Zakhu near Mosul. Cambridge University Press, London. (en lingua inglesa)
1802 (MDCCCII) wis a common year stairtin on Fryday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter C), the 1802nt year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 802nt year o the 2nt millennium, the 2nt year o the 19t century, an the 3rd year o the 1800s decade atween 1583 an 1929 an wi Julian Value: 1802 is 12 calendar days difference, which continued tae be uised till the complete conversion o the Gregorian calendar wis entirely duin in 1929.
Disc 2 concentrates on (post-ska) rocksteady and reggae tracks recorded between 1968 and 1970, such as Toots & the Maytals' "Do the Reggay", "Monkey Man" and "Pressure Drop", as well Jimmy Cliff's "Wonderful World, Beautiful People" and "Many Rivers to Cross. The Slickers' "Johnny Too Bad", like several of the other tracks on this compilation were featured in the movie, The Harder They Come starring Jimmy Cliff, and its soundtrack album. Tony Tribe does a rendition of "Red, Red Wine", originally written and performed by (Neil Diamond), which later became a hit for UB40.
Pedro Calderón de la Barca y Barreda González de Henao Ruiz de Blasco y Riaño, uisually referred as Pedro Calderón de la Barca (Spaingie pronunciation: [ˈpeðɾo kaldeˈɾon de la ˈβarka]; 17 Januar 1600 – 25 Mey 1681), wis a dramatist, poet an writer o the Spaingie Gowden Age. During certain periods o his life he wis an aa a sodger an a Roman Catholic priest. Born when the Spaingie Gowden Age theatre wis bein defined bi Lope de Vega, he developed it further, his wark bein regairdit as the culmination o the Spaingie Baroque theatre. As such, he is regairdit as ane o Spain's foremaist dramatists an ane o the finest playwrichts o warld leeteratur.
As late as 2006, CBS aired only three of its NFL games in high-definition each week, the same number of games it had aired for the past few seasons. The other networks with rights to broadcast NFL games, NBC, NFL Network and ESPN, broadcast all of their games in high definition, and Fox broadcasts up to six in HD. Because of this, some fans accused CBS of being "cheap." Beginning with the 2007 season, CBS began airing 5 of Sunday's games in high definition television on doubleheader weeks, and six on singleheader weeks.
Van Tilburg, JoAnne: Engineers of Easter Island: archaeologists field test a theory of how Easter Island's moai were moved. Archaeology. J. 52, n-ro 6 (1999), p. 40-45
Thor Eisentrager is a founding member and former guitarist for the Minneapolis-based Noise rock-outfit, the Cows. After the release of the Cows's ninth album, Sorry in Pig Minor, Thor announced that he had grown tired of touring and left the band. The remaining members disbanded shortly thereafter. He is currently retired from the music business and works as the assistant director of security for the Minneapolis Institute of Art.
The Minnesota Woman Suffrage Association (MWSA) was an organization devoted to women's suffrage in Minnesota. From 1881 to 1920, the organization struggled to secure women's right to vote. Its members organized marches, wrote petitions and letters, gathered signatures, gave speeches, and published pamphlets and broadsheets to force the Minnesota Legislature to recognize their right to vote. Due to their efforts, the legislature approved the Nineteenth Amendment in 1919.
The ISO 3166 standard is maintained by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA), located at the ISO central office in Geneva, Switzerland. Originally it was located at the Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN) in Berlin, Germany. Its principal tasks are:
In 2011, The Scottis Naitional Pairtie wun an oweraw majority in pairlament an intends tae haud a referendum oan unthirldom in the hairst o 2014.
M. Kalinski, Aharonov-Bohm oscillations in a hydrogen atom in a radiation field through electron self-interference, Phys. Rev. A 57, 2239-2242 (1996).
Tha am baile suidhichte mu mhìle (1.5 km) iar-dheas air Latharan ann an gleann air bruach Bhùrn Latharain a' Phuill (Beurla: Burn of Latheronwheel), abhainn bheag a tha a' sruthadh tron bhaile.
21 December - Ratu Edward Cakobau, Kaiviti chief aur 1970 se lae ke 1973 talak, deputy Prime Minister ke janam Bau me bhae rahaa (maut: 25 June 1973)
Bvevepfeve kana bvebverere (Action of spreading out in many directions). NoMugovera vanhu vomuHarare vanoita bvevepfeve: every Saturday the people of Harare go out into the country in all directions.
P. Bouchet, T. Ripken & B. Recorbet. « Conservation of a narrow-range mediterranean island endemic, Helix ceratina from Corsica », in Journal of Conchology Special Publication 2, 1998, p. 205-208. Tyrrhenaria ceratina (Shuttleworth, 1843)
The artificial market however is rarely advocated as the only element for the allocation of goods and services by its proponents, as most also support a form of directly democratic planning for non-commercial goods and vital resources, and in some cases regulation of the artificial market through planning also. In the ID's system of allocation of resources, "the artificial market complements the envisaged direct democratic planning mechanism in the allocation of all goods and services on the basis of the crucial distinction introduced in this model between basic and nonbasic goods and services".
Harold Edward "Harry" Wright (3 June 1909 – April 1994) was an English professional footballer and manager who played as a goalkeeper in the Football League for Charlton Athletic, Aldershot and Derby County, and managed the India national team between 1963 and 1964.
Hughes. Herbert W, A Text-Book of Mining: For the use of colliery managers and others (London, many editions 1892-1917), the standard British textbook for its era.
Already has a bot flag in: ar, am, an, ast, az, bar, bat-smg, bg, br, bn, bpy, bs, ca, ceb, cs, cv, da, de, el, en, eo, es, et, eu, fa, fi, fiu-vro, fr, frp, fy, ga, gl, he, hr, hsb, ht, hu, hy, id, is, it, iu, ja, jv, ka, kk, ksh, ku, lb, li, lmo, ln, lt, lv, mk, mi, ml, mr, ms, mt, nap, nds, nds-nl, nl, nn, no, pl, pms, ps, pt, ro, roa-tara, ru, sco, sh, sk, simple, sl, sq, sr, su, sv, ta, tg, th, to, tr, tt, uk, ur, vec, vi, vls, vo, zh, zh-classical, zh-min-nan, zh-yue. On it.wiki has done more than 65000 edit.
She scannane bioghit veih'n vlein 2012 liorish Walt Disney Animation Studios eh Wreck-It Ralph. Ta'n scannane ny 52oo scannane ayns straih Classicee Vioghit Walt Disney.
The most common and popular mints for cultivation are peppermint (Mentha × piperita), spearmint (Mentha spicata), and (more recently) pineapple mint (Mentha suaveolens).
Lakas Kampi Christian-Muslim Democrats is a centrist poleetical pairty in the Philippines. It is a memmer o the Centrist Democrat International.
用新嘅途徑去考察時間。 海德格話自從亞里士多德，大家都用差唔多同一種途徑去解譯時。 However, time in a primordial, that is a practical, sense, is always the time of something or time for something. We are involved in the world, in projects, and these swallow up time; for example, we open doors without explicitly giving time to it. The present emerges not out of itself but as the time we must act or not act, as a finite being we are always being-towards-death, being itself is an issue for us. Similarly, the past, through tradition, is transmitted to us or rejected by us, but we are thrown into a certain time; one cannot choose to be a genuine Samurai warrior in the twenty first century. The variety of ways time can be thought out, e.g., in Aristotle's simplistic past-present-future, and these others ways of thinking it out are referred to as temporality.
Ainu pagsasao or pagsasao (Russia, Japan) (like Arabic or Japanese, the diversity within Ainu is large enough that some consider it to be perhaps up to a dozen pagsasao while others consider it a single pagsasao with high dialectal diversity)
Taquaraçu de Minas is a Brazilian municipality locatit in the state o Minas Gerais. The ceety belangs tae the mesoregion Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte an tae the microregion o Itabira.
In 182 members Gujarat Legislative Assembly, there were only 46 RJP members while there were 44 INC, 76 BJP and 15 Independents members. Thus minority government by outside support of INC resulted in instability. He submitted his resignation to Gujarat Governor Krishnapal Singh and called for fresh assembly election on 5 January 1998 but continued as a caretaker Chief Minister till 4 March 1998. He lost to the BJP's Bharat Pandya in Dhandhuka by a margin of over 15000 votes in 1998 assembly election while RJP won only four seats. BJP regained power with 117 seats out of 182 seats assembly.
Larson, G., K. Dobney, U. Albarella, M. Fang, E. Matisoo-Smith, J. Robins, S. Lowden, H. Finlayson, T. Brand, E. Willerslev, P. Rowley-Conwy, L. Andersson, A. Cooper. 2005. Worldwide phylogeography of wild boar reveals multiple centers of pig domestication. Science 307(5715):1618-1621.
((en))Samar Attar: A discovery voyage of self and other: Fadwa Tuqan's sojourn in England in the early sixties, Arab Studies Quarterly (ASQ), Summer, 2003.
The Scotland naitional fitbaa team represent Scotland in internaitional fitbaa, and is guidit by the Scots Fitbaa Association. Scotland are the jynt auldest naitional fibaa team in the warld, aside Ingland, whae thay spield wi in the warld's first internaitional fitbaa tournament. Scotland maistly spiel at Hampden Park, but whiles freendly matches are spield at club grunds.
The root is found in Arabic as awar, in Italian as avaria, in French as avarie and in Dutch as averij. It is unclear in which language the word first appeared.
Given the challenge of making its coverage of the American Football Conference different from that of NBC, CBS passed over longtime NBC veterans Charlie Jones and Bob Trumpy in favor of newcomers such as Ian Eagle and Steve Tasker. According to CBS Sports executive producer Terry Ewert, "We wanted to forge our own way and go in a different direction. We wanted to make decisions on a new way of looking at things." In one stark difference from NBC, CBS used a constant score and clock for its NFL games, a la the FoxBox. CBS' contribution was dubbed the EyeBox.
The circulatory system of a human fetus works differently from that of born humans, mainly because the lungs are not in use: the fetus obtains oxygen and nutrients from the woman through the placenta and the umbilical cord.
The farmer, or specifically the small landowner-cultivator, was ranked just below scholars and officials in the social hierarchy. Other agricultural cultivators were of a lower status, such as tenants, wage laborers, and in rare cases slaves. Artisans and craftsmen had a legal and socioeconomic status between that of owner-cultivator farmers and common merchants. State-registered merchants, who were forced by law to wear white-colored clothes and pay high commercial taxes, were considered by the gentry as social parasites with a contemptible status. These were often petty shopkeepers of urban marketplaces; merchants such as industrialists and itinerant traders working between a network of cities could avoid registering as merchants and were often wealthier and more powerful than the vast majority of government officials. Wealthy landowners, such as nobles and officials, often provided lodging for retainers who provided valuable work or duties, sometimes including fighting bandits or riding into battle. Unlike slaves, retainers could come and go from their master's home as they pleased. Medical physicians, pig breeders, and butchers had a fairly high social status, while occultist diviners, runners, and messengers had low status.
"The True Story of Fátima" - Book by John De Marchi containing first-person accounts, including those of newspaper reporters and the children themselves. Entire text online.
1878 - Uyedineniya Island (an aa kent as Lonely Island), ane o Roushie's remotest isles, in the Arctic Ocean, is discoverit bi Norse sailor Edvard Holm Johannesen.
Zegama's main characteristic is its natural location as the last Gipuzkoan toun up the valley o river Oria, vera close tae the Aizkorri Natural Pairk, in which the heichest mountain in the Basque Autonomous Commonty can be foond, the popular Aizkorri summit (1,528 m), locatit at the same name muntain range touerin ower the whole aurie. The Oria river, the langest ane in the province o Gipuzkoa, rises in several springs an their correspondin streams flowin doun the dramatic slopes o the valley that merge in a main stream afore the nucleus o the toun. The soothren Otzaurte hamlet (IPA: /o'tsaurte/) staunds on the dividin line o the watters runnin ontae the Mediterranean wattershed an those flowin north tae the Atlantic throu the Oria river.
Parthie is a historical region locatit in the modren sooth-wastren Turkmenistan an north-eastren Iran, best kent for havin been the poleetical an cultural base o the Arsacid dynasty, rulers o the Parthian Empire. The name "Parthia" is a continuation frae Laitin Parthia, frae Auld Persie Parthava, which was the Parthian leid self-designator signifyin "o the Parthians" who wur an Iranian fowk. In context tae its Hellenistic period Parthie an aa appears as Parthyaea.
Taking over a team with only one returning starter, he led the Racers to a 16-14 season and second-place finish in the Ohio Valley Conference. His next two squads won 18 and 19 games, again placing second in the conference regular-season standings, and advanced as far as the OVC tournament semifinals.
She oltey ynrican y ghenus Crithmum ee Lus ny greg (Crithmum maritimum). Ta ny h-enmyn cabbash varrey as cabbash hraie currit urree myrgeddin, agh ta keayllyn elley ocsyn neesht.
Quiet but deadly, Monica Caine literally has not uttered a single word since the spontaneous manifestation of her psionic abilities which she utilized to become indoctrinated in the Bloodpool.
Javier Hernández Balcázar (Spaingie pronunciation: [xaˈβjeɾ erˈnandes]; born 1 Juin 1988) is a Mexican fitbawer who plays as a forward for La Liga club Real Madrid, on lend frae Manchester United an the Mexican naitional team. Hernández plays wi his nickname, Chicharito (Spaingie: little pease), on his shirt. He previously played for the Mexican club Guadalajara, afore becomin the first Mexican player tae jyn Manchester United.
This is a list of administrators and Governors of Ogun State, Nigeria. Ogun State was formed in 1976-02-03 when Western State divided into Ogun, Ondo, and Oyo states.
American public schools were all significantly impacted by World War II. In the words of Lt. General Brehon Sommervell, then Commanding General, Services of Supply: "The job of the schools in this total war is to educate the nation's manpower for war and for the peace that follows." Columbia High School met the challenge, primarily with curriculum changes designed to prepare boys for service in the military. The science department developed courses in aeronautics. In biology, students studied the effect of flying on the human body. A new modern history course emphasized the "historical background for an understanding of the forces which have caused this global war, of the necessity of destroying that for which our enemies stand and of the magnitude of the international problems which face the world." Even the music department offered a new program "to train pupils in the informal singing that grows out of wartime needs." Columbia had its own Victory Corps with the objective of encouraging pupils "to take some active part in their own community's war effort while they are yet in school.
Tiejun Zhao, Qiang Sun, Maud Marques, Michael Witcher, "Anticancer Properties of Phyllanthus emblica (Indian Gooseberry)" in Oxidative medicine and cellular longevity]] (2015) pp. 1-7
We would also appreciate help with translation with the pages about VisualEditor here and on MediaWiki.org, and its user interface. See VisualEditor TranslationCentral for general information. To translate the user interface, start by creating an account at TranslateWiki. Once your account request is approved, all you need to do is select your language from this list. This will give you a list of individual lines and paragraphs. The English original will be on one side, with the option to “edit” on the other. Pressing “edit” will open an edit window where you can work.
Supporters also claim that ID's institutional framework offers the best hope for a better human relationship to nature than could ever be achieved in a market economy, or one based on socialist statism. The factors supporting this view refer to all three elements of an inclusive democracy: political, economic and social.
Mints tend to make good companion plants, repelling pest insects and attracting beneficial ones. The common mints, like spearmint and peppermint, are considered good to grow among tomato and pepper plants, where they enhance flavor, repel aphids, attract parasitic wasps to eat caterpillars, provide "living mulch" ground cover, etc.[sēðung þurfed]
Sweeney M.I., Kalt W., MacKinnon S.L., Ashby J. and Gottschall-Pass K.T. Feeding of diets enriched in lowbush blueberries (Vaccinium angustifolium) for six weeks decreases stroke severity in rats. Nutritional Neuroscience 5: 427-431, 2002.
Asi kuvakororo vemabunha aaiya nawo, Abraham wakavapa zvipo: But to the sons of the concubines he made grants... (Genesis 25:2 Bhaibheri reChiNdau)
Encyclopaedia of Mathematics online encyclopaedia from Springer, Graduate-level reference work with over 8,000 entries, illuminating nearly 50,000 notions in mathematics.
Atomic Weights of the Elements 2001, Pure Appl. Chem. 75(8), 1107—1122, 2003. Retrieved June 30, 2005. Atomic weights of elements with atomic numbers from 1-109 taken from this source.(angl.)
Monistrol de Calders is a veelage in the province o Barcelona an autonomous commonty o Catalonie, Spain. The municipality covers a aurie o 21.96 square kilometres (8.48 sq mi) an as o 2011 haed a population o 689 fowk. Syne Mey 2015 it haes been pairt o the new comarca o Moianès; previously it wis in Bages.
Tiveden Naitional Pairk is pairtly situatit athin the municipality. The Flugebyn airfield, hame o the Västergötland Skydiving Club (Västergötlands Fallskärmsklubb) lees in the municipality an aw.
Hea Kointantleo madri ek mulavi shala chalaitat. Hea gavant don sarkari pratamik shala assat. Hea gavant Our Lady Of Lourdis School ani Sant Anthoniche shala assa. Gavant mullavik ani madiamik shalla assa. Fr. Basilio Andrade memorial Uncch madiamik vidyalai he Majorda vatarant assa.
Bad Reichenhall Olmoniyaning Bavariya yerida joylashgan shahardir. Berchtesgadener Land tumani tarkibiga kiradi. Maydoni – 39,44 km2. Aholisi – 17470 kishi (2010).
Journalists' interaction with sources sometimes involves confidentiality, an extension of freedom of the press giving journalists a legal protection to keep the identity of a confidential informant private even when demanded by police or prosecutors; withholding sources can land journalists in contempt of court, or in jail.
A quiet and secretive officer in charge of the Sonic Diver program at the Oppama Testing Facility. While Lt. Col. Togo outranks him, Lt. Hizuki's position in the program puts him above Togo. Unbeknown to the others, he is preparing the Sonic Divers to combat WORMs. He is an unsociable man who is not used to showing his true feelings giving him the appearance of a cold man.
With the exception of a small number of satyagrahas and the activities of the All-Goa Political Party Committee, lacking the support of the national Indian government, the anti-colonial movement lost its momentum.प्रारूप:Citation needed Pro-independence advocacy actions were sporadic and few were willing to involve themselves in the movement. On 18 June 1954, Satyagrahis infiltrated Goa and hoisted the Indian flag; however, the demonstrators and suspected sympathisers were arrested, and anti-colonialist activists Dr. Gaitonde and Shriyut Deshpande were deported to Portugal.
As an example, if the Buffalo Bills are losing to the New England Patriots by over 20 points in the fourth quarter, most of the CBS stations carrying that game can be switched to another game; however, WBZ-TV Boston and WIVB Buffalo must carry the New England/Buffalo game to conclusion as they are in the two markets whose local teams are playing.
Serpukhov (Roushie: Серпухов) is a ceety in Moscow Oblast, Roushie, locatit at the confluence o the Oka an the Nara Rivers, 99 kilometers (62 mi) sooth frae Moscow on the Moscow—Simferopol heichway.
Wagontire - Waldport - Walker - Wallowa - Walterville - Walton - Wamic - Wankers Corner - Warm Springs - Warren - Warrenton - Wasco - Wauna - Waterloo - Wedderburn - Welches - Wemme - Wendling - West Linn - West Stayton - West Union - Westfall - Westfir - Weston - Westport - Wheeler - White City - Whiteson - Whitney - Wilbur - Wilderville - Willamina - Willamette* - Williams - Willow Creek - Wilsonville - Winchester - Winchester Bay - Winston - Wolf Creek - Wonder - Wood Village - Woodburn - Worden - Wren
Littleton, Cynthia. "Happy 70th Birthday, TV Commercial broadcasts bow on July 1, 1941; Variety calls it 'corney'", Variety, July 1, 2011. WebCitation archive.
Full disclosure requires that full details of a security vulnerability are disclosed to the public, including details of the vulnerability and how to detect and exploit it. The theory behind full disclosure is that releasing vulnerability information immediately results in better security. Fixes are produced faster because vendors and authors are forced to respond in order to protect their system from potential attacks as well as to protect their own image. Security is improved because the window of exposure, the amount of time the vulnerability is open to attack, is reduced. The issue of full disclosure was first raised in a 19th-century controversy over the revelation of lock-system weaknesses to the public. According to A. C. Hobbs:
When Goodrem was 15 years old, her first manager Glenn Wheatley signed her to an artist development deal with independent label Empire Records, to see if she possessed potential as a recording artist. Between June 1999 to June 2000, she worked with producers Paul Higgins and Trevor Carter on thirteen tracks for an album called Delta, which saw "an ambitious 15-year-old keen to emulate the pop sound of the Spice Girls, Britney Spears and Mandy Moore." Most tracks were written by Carter, although Goodrem did co-write a couple of tracks including the sole-penned "Love". Goodrem did a photoshoot for the album (some of the photos have surfaced), and recorded a home-made style music video for the song "Say" which has since leaked onto the internet. Higgins took the album to Roadshow, who offered to market and distribute the album, but the deal was knocked back by Goodrem's parents. In September 2000, Goodrem signed to Sony Music and the album was shelved. A year later, Goodrem released her debut single "I Don't Care" and in late 2002, released her breakthrough international hit "Born to Try", with many number ones to follow.
1848 - In Boston, Massachusetts, the first medical school for women, The Boston Female Medical School (which will later merge with Boston University School of Medicine), opens.
Most wikis keep a record of changes made to wiki pages; often every version of the page is stored. This means that authors can revert to an older version of the page, should it be necessary because a mistake has been made or the page has been vandalized. Many implementations (for example MediaWiki) allow users to supply an "edit summary" when they edit a page. This is a short piece of text (usually one line) summarizing the changes. It is not inserted into the article, but is stored along with that revision of the page, allowing users to explain what has been done and why; this is similar to a log message when committing changes to a revision control system.
Keffrysyans gwlasek hag erbysiethek yw an Unyans Europek (po an UE). Yma drehevyansow chyf an UE yn Brusselas. Y'n jeves eth stat europek warn ugens avel eseli a-dhia vis-Gortheren 2013. Rolhes yns i omma war-lergh dydhyans aga homjunyans dhe'n Unyans:
Fundraising 2010 is preparing to start, and we want your project to be a part of the global movement to support free knowledge. The Wikimedia Foundation is engaging with local communities that build the projects to play an active part in this year's fundraiser. This year we will be working to best serve all the language communities by providing messages that are best suited for each location.
Ta'n fo-strughtoor jeant seose jeh cullee anchorragh ta ymmyrçhagh ry hoi arraghey, as foddee dy vel ad nyn raaidyn, raaidyn yiarn, mollee aeragh, goorseyn ushtey, ammyryn as biob-linnaghyn, as stadyn jerree lheid as puirt aeragh, stashoonyn traenagh, stashoonyn barroose, thieyn stoyr, stadyn jerree truck, stoyryn aa-lhieeney (goaill loghanyn lhieeney as stashoonyn jeshee stiagh 'syn earroo) as puirt varrey. Foddee dy vel stadyn jerree ymmydit ry hoi eddyr-cheaghley troailtee as lughtee, as ry hoi meansalaght.
During his tenure at the Mossad, he helped carry out Operation Wrath of God, the Israeli response to the Munich Massacre, and dealt with the lead up and aftermath of the Yom Kippur War in 1973. After the German government refused to accept an Israeli team during the Munich hostage crisis, Zamir was sent to observe any activities. He was at the Fürstenfeldbruck airbase the night that the failed rescue attempt left all nine remaining Israeli hostages dead. Zamir was interviewed about the incident in 1999 when he spoke with the producer of One Day in September, a documentary on the massacre. In it he strongly criticized the German rescue effort for its complete lack of coordination. He had previously been interviewed on this subject for an NBC profile during their coverage of the 1992 Barcelona Olympics, and he has discussed the massacre several times since. Zamir currently resides in Zahala, a neighborhood in the north of Tel Aviv.
Der Grant M. Stoltzfus waar en Schreiwer. In 1954 hot er en Thesis gschriwwe fer die University of Pittsburgh ass History of the First Amish Mennonite Communities in America gheese waar. Sei Fadder waar der Sylvanus Stoltzfus (1881-).
Over at Columbia, Coburn was in a swinging sixties heist film, Duffy (1968) which flopped. He was one of several stars who had cameos in Candy (1968) then played a hitman in Hard Contract (1969) for Fox, another flop.
I primis documents che a cjacarin di Pradaman e son dal XI secul ancje se te Tor a son stadis cjatadis anforis di epoche romane che a fasin pensâ a insediaments plui antîcs.
About 600 of the best of Wikimedia Common's photos, animations, movies and graphics were chosen –by the international Wikimedia Commons community– out of 12 million files during 2011 and are now called Featured Pictures.
Page is also interested in the socio-economic effects of advanced intelligent systems and how advanced digital technologies can be used to create abundance (as described in Peter Diamandis' book), provide for people's needs, shorten the workweek, and mitigate the potential detrimental effects of technological unemployment.
On June 7, 2006, Florida's wildlife commission voted to take the manatee off of the state's endangered species list. Some environmentalists worry that this could erode safeguards for the popular sea creature.
Introvigne, Massimo ([ca. 2003]). Introvigne, Massimo. «El Código Da Vinci FAQ, or Will the Real Priory of Sion Please Stand Up?», [ca. 2003]. [Consulta: 6 maig 2015].
The alkaline earth metals are named after their oxides, the alkaline earths, whose old-fashioned names were beryllia, magnesia, lime, strontia, and baryta. These oxides are basic (alkaline) when combined with water. "Earth" is an old term applied by early chemists to nonmetallic substances that are insoluble in water and resistant to heating—properties shared by these oxides. The realization that these earths were not elements but compounds is attributed to the chemist Antoine Lavoisier. In his Traité Élémentaire de Chimie (Elements of Chemistry) of 1789 he called them salt-forming earth elements. Later, he suggested that the alkaline earths might be metal oxides, but admitted that this was mere conjecture. In 1808, acting on Lavoisier's idea, Humphry Davy became the first to obtain samples of the metals by electrolysis of their molten earths, thus supporting Lavoisier's hypothesis and causing the group to be named the alkaline earth metals.
John Milton Nickles, Marie Siegrist (1965) Bibliography and Index of Geology Exclusive of North America, Geological Society of America, v.28
Han disputerade 1940 på avhandlingen Calibrated phonocardiography and electro-cardiography. A clinical study of normal children and children with congenital heart disease, och var en av författarna till den klassiska läroboken Diagnosis of congenital heart disease. A clinical and technical study by the Cardiologic Team of the Pediatric Clinic, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm 1955.
The only pre-requisite is for the volunteer to actually live in the country and to have access to at least one donation method that we offer for that country (mainly credit/debit card, but also real time banking like IDEAL, E-wallets, etc...) so we can do a live test and see if the donation goes through. **All volunteers will be reimbursed of the donations that eventually succeed (and they will be very low amounts, like 1-2 dollars)**
Las Cruces (daswedyans: The City of the Crosses, Cita an Krowsyowyw) yw sita yn Meksiko Nowydh, Statys Unys. Yn 2010, poblans an sita o 97,618.
3 Musketeers ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Cole S. McKay ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Heather Hemmens, Alan Rachins, Xin Sarith Wuku, David Chokachi acting kiye the.
Structurally, they have in common an outer s- electron shell which is full; that is, this orbital contains its full complement of two electrons, which these elements readily lose to form cations with charge +2, and an oxidation state (oxidation number) of +2.
January 1, 2005 - The town of Saganoseki was merged into the expanded city of Ōita. Kita-Amabe District was dissolved as a result of this merger.
In 1997, while traveling to a peace summit between the United States, China and Russia, Air Force One is hijacked by a domestic terrorist posing as a stewardess. The President is given a tracking bracelet and his briefcase (containing an audiotape describing the secret to using nuclear fusion for power generation) handcuffed to his wrist. He makes it to an escape pod, and lands in Manhattan just before Air Force One crashes, killing everyone else aboard.
The local admeenistration o the oblast' is controlled bi the Sumy Oblast Rada. The govrenor o the oblast' is the Sumy Oblast Rada speaker, appointit bi the Preses o Ukraine.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 30,048 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 356.40 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 7011.
Winternitz, Maurice (1972). History of Indian Literature. New Delhi: Oriental Books Reprint Corporation. Second revised reprint edition. Two volumes. First published 1927 by the University of Calcutta.
Xpu Há haes a assortment o hotels, cabins, restaurants an dive shops tae cater tae tourists. At the north o the bay is the Cenote Manati, ane o the lairgest natural watter wells in the region.
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) (1994): Germplasm Resources Information Network - Albizia lebbeck (L.) Benth.. Version of 1994-AUG-23. Retrieved 2008-MAR-30.
The alkaline earth metals are all silver-colored and soft, and have relatively low densities, melting points, and boiling points. In chemical terms, all of the alkaline metals react with the halogens to form the alkaline earth metal halides, all of which are ionic crystalline compounds (except for beryllium chloride, which is covalent). All the alkaline earth metals except beryllium also react with water to form strongly alkaline hydroxides and, thus, should be handled with great care. The heavier alkaline earth metals react more vigorously than the lighter ones. The alkaline metals have the second-lowest first ionization energies in their respective periods of the periodic table because of their somewhat low effective nuclear charges and the ability to attain a full outer shell configuration by losing just two electrons. The second ionization energy of all of the alkaline metals is also somewhat low.
Milford, Frederick J. "U.S. Navy Torpedoes: Part Three—WW II development of conventional torpedoes 1940–1946". The Submarine Review, January 1997.
...the farmers' wives became so intensely absorbed with this new novelty, who soon learned how their Pennsylvania German dialect could be flung across wires which extended over broad acres of fertile soil and along fenced pasture plots.
On the first anniversary of September 11th, the Sacramento News & Review brought together musical acts from different faith groups around Sacramento for a Call For Unity Event to symbolize the city's acceptance of racial and religious diversity. Every year someone in the region was honored with a Building Unity Award for their interfaith work in Sacramento, until 2008, when the last Call for Unity event was held.
The leids spoken in the Cochabamba Depairtment are mainly Spainyie an Quechua. The follaein table shows the number o those belangin tae the recognisit group o speakers.
Standley, P. C. & L. O. Williams 1962. Lythraceae. In Standley, P. C. & L. O. Williams (eds.), Flora of Guatemala – Part VII. Fieldiana, Bot. 24(7/2): 240–260.
The subphylum Hexapoda (frae the Greek for sax legs) constitutes the lairgest (in terms o nummer o species) groupin o arthropods an includes the insects as well as three much smawer groups o wingless arthropods: Collembola, Protura, an Diplura (aw o these wur ance considered insects).
University of California Cooperative Extension (2006). Strategies for Off-Season Blueberry Production on Coastal California Small Farms (pdf file) an article by Mark Gaskell in Central Coast Agriculture Highlights newsletter. Accessed August 24 2006.
On leaving Colchester in the summer of 1949, Wright was appointed trainer-coach at Guildford City. After qualifying as an FA coach and physiotherapist, Wright would hold coaching positions at Walsall and Luton Town before being appointed head coach of First Division Everton in September 1956.
To stay up-to-date on everything happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages. You can see previous editions here.
As of July 2014, the Bloomberg Billionaires Index lists Page as the 17th richest man in the world, with an estimated net worth of $32.7 billion. At the completion of 2014, Fortune magazine named Page its "Businessperson of the Year," declaring him "the world’s most daring CEO".
Hirshfeld, Alan, and Roger W. Sinnott, eds., Sky Catalogue 2000.0, Vol.2, Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Corp. and Cambridge University Press, 1985. (3098,238)
Rollin' on the River began in 1996 as a community concert series, and has evolved into one of Reno's largest free summer music events. Rollin' on the River is held in Wingfield Park, an island amphitheater on the Truckee River, during the month of July and features both local and regional touring artists.
United Nations Analytical Report for the 2004 revision of World Population Prospects (the analytical report for the 2006 revision is not available online) — includes details of methodology and sources used for the population estimates above.
Michael W. King's Medical Biochemistry. Steroids and retinoids are both terpenes that are hydrophobic, pass through cell membranes and bind to intracellular receptors. However, retinoic acid is not a steroid because it does not have the defining ring structure. See: Steroids and Related Hydrophobic Molecules.
Agh ga nagh row scansh currit er y Ghaelg ayns ny scoillyn as ny kialteenyn ny smoo, cha row lhiettalys currit er cur magh reddyn 'sy Ghaelg, as ad cur cooney da'n aavioghey ayns ny bleeantyn s'anmey. 'Sy vlein 1804 hie A Practical Grammar of the Antient Gael[i]c; or Language of the Isle of Mann, Usually Called Manks ("Lioar Grammeydys ny Gaelgey") er ny chur magh liorish yn Arrymagh John Kelly. Va shalee echey fockleyr tree-hengagh dy chur magh 'sy vlein 1805, agh va'n lioar scrysst ayns aile 'syn oik prental. 'Sy vlein 1822 hie Banglanyn y Chredjue Chreestee magh liorish y Prayer-book and Homily Society as ayns 1835 hie A Dictionary of the Manx Language er ny chur magh liorish Archibald Cregeen (1774 - 1841), fockleyr ta coontit dys y laa t'ayn myr nane jeh ny fockleyryn smoo scanshoil 'sy Ghaelg.
MATLAB supports elements of lambda calculus by introducing function handles, or function references, which are implemented either in .m files or anonymous/nested functions.
The Indian social system was influenced by the concept of varna. Varna is not caste and caste is not Varna. This is a critical difference not understood by many. It directly linked religious belief and the segregation of society into status groups. Weber goes on to describe the Varna system (the Brahmins - priests, the Kshatriyas - warriors, the Vaishyas - merchants, the Shudras - laborers and the untouchables).
Garden State (2004): The school is both shown and referenced in this Zach Braff film, which was partly filmed in neighboring South Orange, New Jersey and Millburn, New Jersey.
Agboola Fahod Ireoluwa (born 01 December 2001), known by his nickname Fahod but popularly called Great Fahod, is a Nigerian citizen from Osogbo, Osun State.[1] He speaks mostly in Yoruba, his native tongue. In 2015, he released his Application .FAHOD, his follow-up Team, was released under his label imprint Rolling Diamond. The application was supported by the singles.
The nature and prospective of Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti (IGF) were also discussed, as the Chairman properly summarizes:
"Always on Time" is the second single by American rapper Ja Rule from his third studio album, Pain Is Love. The song would feature American R&B singer Ashanti, and was produced by Irv Gotti. The song was written by 7 Aurelius, Ja Rule and Irving Lorenzo. The song became a worldwide hit and was Ashanti's first Hot 100 number one single and Ja Rule's second.
Las Riveras Pairk (The Riversides Pairk): A pairk locatit aroond the Tamazula river, atween Forum Culiacán Complex, the Isla de Orabá pairk (Orab Island pairk) the Malecón Viejo (Auld Watterfront) an the Malecón Nuevo (New Watterfront). It haes anerly pedal boats an a Tyrolean athort the river. An aw, it haes a bike path, includin recreational gemmes. Here is celebratit Mither's Day, Faither's Day, Childer's Day an the Holy Week.
The mint family has a large grouping of recognized hybrids. As with all classifications of plants, this list can go out of date at a moment's notice. Synonyms, along with cultivars and varieties where available, are included within the specific species.
San Mateo Coonty is includit in the San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA Metropolitan Statistical Area, an is pairt o the San Francisco Bay Area, the nine coonties borderin San Francisco Bay. It covers maist o the San Francisco Peninsula. San Francisco Internaitional Airport is locatit at the northren end o the coonty, an Silicon Valley begins at the soothren end. The coonty's built-up auries are maistly suburban wi some auries bein vera urban, an are hame tae several corporate campuses.
Predation of the mandarin duck varies between different parts of its range. Mink, raccoon dogs, otters, polecats, Eurasian eagle owls, and grass snakes are all predators of the mandarin duck. The greatest threat to the mandarin duck is habitat loss due to loggers. Hunters are also a threat to the mandarin duck, because often they are unable to recognize the mandarin in flight and as a result, many are shot by accident. Mandarin ducks are not hunted for food, however they are still poached because their extreme beauty is prized.
Long, A.A. (2005). "6: Astrology: arguments pro and contra". In Barnes, Jonathan; Brunschwig, J. Science and Speculation. Cambridge University Press. pp. 165–191.
If you'd like to learn about this kind of events earlier in advance, consider becoming a Tech ambassador by subscribing to the mailing list. You will also be able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and be notified of important decisions.
Swami Abhedananda centenary celebration, 1966-67: souvenir, containing the most valuable and authentic records of the glorious life of Swami Abhedananda, by Swami Abhedānanda. Published by Ramakrishna Vedanta Math, 1966.
Elisabeti Keji (abiso Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; ojoibi 21 April 1926) je ayaba oriite fun awon orile-ede merindinlogun ti won n pe ni Ile Ajoni: Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
In September 2004, as part of the Continuum 12 artists series, an exhibit of her work opened in New York City and the George Gustav Heye Center of the National Museum of the American Indian. The exhibit included Blanket Stories, a sculpture made of two towers of wool blankets, with each stack sewn together with a central thread. She collected the blankets over several years, including many Hudson's Bay point blankets that were given to Native Americans in trade by the Hudson's Bay Company during the 19th century.
The Object of Beauty ek 1991 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK, USA mein Michael Lindsay-Hogg ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein John Malkovich, Andie MacDowell, Lolita Davidovich, Rudi Davies acting kiye the.
Civil Peace (1971). Short story by Chinụa Achebe with focus on the term egg rasher. Text with background information, exercises and connotations, english, looked up on 20 March 2016.
T’ad jannoo caashey ass proteen as sahll vainney. She bainney ollee, ollee oaldey, goair as kirree t’ayn son y chooid smoo. T’ad cur er y vainney geayraghey as binjaghey, as t’eh rheynn ayns groo as meaig. Son y chooid smoo ta janteyr caashey cur stiagh stoo toshee gyle bacteyragh er son geayraghey as binjey er son binjaghey, agh ta shiartanse dy chaashey jeant lesh geayr hene; myr sampleyr, ta paneer jeant lesh feeyn geayr, soolagh limon ny geayr elley. T’ad tayrn magh y groo fondagh as eh y ‘aastey ayns faastan.
General-in-Chief He Jin (d. 189 AD), half-brother to Empress He (d. 189 AD), plotted with Yuan Shao (d. 202 AD) to overthrow the eunuchs by having several generals march to the outskirts of the capital. There, in a written petition to Empress He, they demanded the eunuchs' execution. After a period of hesitation, Empress He consented. When the eunuchs discovered this, however, they had her brother He Miao (何苗) rescind the order. The eunuchs assassinated He Jin on September 22, 189 AD. Yuan Shao then besieged Luoyang's Northern Palace while his brother Yuan Shu (d. 199 AD) besieged the Southern Palace. On September 25 both palaces were breached and approximately two thousand eunuchs were killed. Zhang Rang had previously fled with Emperor Shao (r. 189 AD) and his brother Liu Xie—the future Emperor Xian of Han (r. 189–220 AD). While being pursued by the Yuan brothers, Zhang committed suicide by jumping into the Yellow River.
Layne Harvey, 'Ngāti Awa', Te Ara - the Encyclopedia of New Zealand, updated 3-Apr-2006. URL: www.TeAra.govt.nz/NewZealanders/MaoriNewZealanders/NgatiAwa/mi
SWIFT Standards, a division of The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT), handles the registration of these codes. Because SWIFT originally introduced what was later standardized as Business Identifier Codes (BICs), they are still often called SWIFT addresses or codes.
Foxe, John (1837). The Acts and Monuments of John Foxe: With a Preliminary Dissertation by the Rev. George Townsend. R.B. Seeley and W. Burnside, sold by L. & G. Seeley, 121.
Johnson was born in Cleveland, Ohio, on July 8, 1906, the son of a Cleveland lawyer, Homer H. Johnson. He was descended from the Jansen family of New Amsterdam, and included among his ancestors the Huguenot Jacques Cortelyou, who laid out the first town plan of New Amsterdam for Peter Stuyvesant. He attended the Hackley School, in Tarrytown, New York, and then studied as an undergraduate at Harvard University where he focused on learning Greek, philology, history and philosophy, particularly the work of the Pre-Socratic philosophers. Upon completing his studies in 1927, he made a series of trips to Europe, visiting the landmarks of classical and Gothic architecture, and joined Henry-Russell Hitchcock, a prominent architectural historian, who was introducing Americans to the work of Le Corbusier, Walter Gropius, and other modernists. In 1928 he met German architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, who was at the time designing the German Pavilion for the 1929 Barcelona International Exposition. The meeting formed the basis for a lifelong relationship of both collaboration and competition
Desta Milkessa Edessa is a PhD student at Rostock University. He received his first Master degree from Indian Institute of technology, in Mechanical Engineering. He acquired an Integrated Second Double Master degree from three European Universities (Liege University, Belgium; Ecole Central De Nantes, France; University of Rostock, Germany). He is a winner of three scholarships including Erasmus Mundus Scholarship. He is the author of five journal and four conference publications.
Moreover, many hundreds of hybrids and cultivars have been developed for garden use, among them the very popular "Highclere holly", Ilex × altaclerensis (I. aquifolium × I. perado) and the "blue holly", Ilex × meserveae (I. aquifolium × I. rugosa). Hollies are often used for hedges; the spiny leaves make them difficult to penetrate, and they take well to pruning and shaping.
Sọgbá, v.t. to repair a broken calabash by sewing up the broken part with a strong with. Ó ń sọgbá náà. (He is repairing the broken calabash by sewing up the broken part with a strong with)
The presence of UN police and Australian troops was a key issue in the 2007 East Timorese presidential election. The winning candidate, José Ramos-Horta, backed the presence of foreign forces and told rallies that he would like these forces to remain for at least five years. Most other candidates called for the UN and ISF to withdraw as soon as possible, arguing that their presence limits East Timor's sovereignty. Despite the differing views on how long the UN and ISF should remain in East Timor, all the parties regard the presence of foreign peacekeepers as being necessary until the F-FDTL and PNTL are ready to take responsibility for the country's security.
The new site for the town of Concepción became the main town of the Intendancy of Concepción, whose jurisdiction extended from the Maule River to La Frontera. The first Intendant of Concepción was the Irishman Ambrose O'Higgins, Marquis of Osorno, who later became Royal Governor of Chile and Viceroy of Peru.
Fatou Bensouda played a central role in the early years of the Gambian Yahya Jammeh putschist regime, being chosen as his legal adviser after his 1994 putsch, before becoming his Minister in 1998 and "being sacked" in 2000. Jammeh's rule has been recurrently denounced for its disrespect of human rights, being considered as one of the "worst dictatorships in the world".
The House The Berrys Built by Duff Hart-Davis. Concerns the history of The Daily Telegraph' from its inception to 1986. Illustrated with references and illustrations of William Ewart Berry, 1st Viscount Camrose (later called Lord Camrose).
Maist o Fujian is admeenistered bi the Fowkrepublic o Cheenae. Housomeivver, the airchipelagos o Kinmen an Matsu are unner the control o the Republic o Cheenae (Taiwan). Thus, there are twa provinces (in the sense o govrenment organizations): the Fujian Province admeenistered bi the Fowkrepublic o Cheenae an the Fujian Province o the Republic o Cheenae.
Ortega, R. M., Redondo, M. R., Lopez-Sobaler, A. M., Quintas, M. E., Zamora, M. J., Andres, P., & Encinas-Sotillos, A. (1996). Associations between obesity, breakfast-time food habits and intake of energy and nutrients in a group of elderly Madrid residents. Journal of the American College of Nutrition, 15(1), 65-72.
I-Wikipedia yaqala njengomsebenzi ozalana noweNupedia. I-Nupedia kwakuyiwas a free online English-language encyclopedia project. Nupedia's articles were written and owned by Bomis, Inc which is a web portal company. The main people of the company were Jimmy Wales, the guy in charge of Bomis, and Larry Sanger, the editor-in-chief for Nupedia. Nupedia was first licensed under the Nupedia Open Content License which was changed to the GNU Free Documentation License before Wikipedia was founded when Richard Stallman requested them.
Wiki promotes meaningful topic associations between different pages by making page link creation almost intuitively easy and showing whether an intended target page exists or not.
In 2016, a partnership with the North Valley Community Foundation, and matching small community donations, has helped support investigative journalism in Butte County, California.
Lederer, Commander William J., USN (1950). The Last Cruise: The Story of the Sinking of the Submarine, U.S.S. Cochino. Sloane. ASIN B0007E631Y.
^ Ralf Steinberger Ralf, Bruno Pouliquen, Anna Widiger, Camelia Ignat, Tomaž Erjavec, Dan Tufiş, Dániel Varga (2006). <<The JRC-Acquis: A multilingual aligned parallel corpus with 20+ languages>> - Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC'2006). Genoa, Italy, 24-26 May 2006.
2002: Phonotactics and Estonian etymology. Finno-Ugrians and Indo-Europeans. Linguistic and Literary Contacts, hrsg. von Rogier Blokland & Cornelius Hasselblatt. Maastricht. 46–50.
Bagan Lalang in Sepang destrict is the location o anither development which will develop an eco-friendly tourist destination bi Sepang Goldcoast.
Gail Porter (born 23 Mairch 1971 in Edinburgh, Scotland), kent an aa bi her mairit name o Gail Hipgrave, is a Scots televeesion presenter, weel-kent for programmes sic as Fully Booked, How 2 an Dead Famous. She is kent forbye for the ongauns ae nicht in 1999, whan monie fowk in Lunnon that juist thocht tae tak a keek tae the waw o the Hooses o Pairlament wis insteid gien a swatch at a gey muckle FHM photie o Gail in the skuddy buff. This, alang wi monie ither 'cairyin-ons', wis aiblins hou she cam tae be kent mair as the kynd o lassie she is - mebbes it ocht tae be said the 'richt gallus' kynd - raither nor juist as a presenter, enterteiner, or oniething ither in parteicular.
卷積 operation can be constructed as a matrix multiplication, where one of the inputs is converted into a Toeplitz matrix. For example, the convolution of
From the name of his grandson C. Sabucius Maior Plotinus Faustinus, who set up an inscription in his memory, it is clear his gentilicum is "Sabucius Maior". "Sabucius" is a rare Etruscan nomen (Anthony Birley provides two other known individuals of that gens), suggesting his origins lay in Italy and not one of the provinces.
The Palace brand was founded around 2011 in England, United Kingdom by Lev Tanju, who was part of a London-based skate crew known as the Palace Wayward Boys Choir. Tanju enlisted the assistance of friends like graphic designer Fergus "Fergadelic" Purcell (also design director at Marc by Marc Jacobs) and photographer Will Bankhead to launch the brand. Tanju explained in 2014: "I just wanted to make some skateboards that looked nice and skated nice."
Cliza is a toun in the Cochabamba Depairtment, Bolivie. It is the caipital o the Germán Jordán Province an the Cliza Municipality. Alang wi Punata, Cliza is the major ceety in the Valle Alto o the Cochabamba Depairtment.
Hearst reported "I spent fifteen hours going over my SLA experiences with Dr. Robert Jay Lifton of Yale University. Dr. Lifton, author of several books on coercive persuasion and thought reform, ... pronounced me a 'classic case' which met all the psychological criteria of a coerced prisoner of war. ... If I had reacted differently, that would have been suspect, he said."
Sneddon, I. N. (1970–1990) "Routh, Edward John", in Gillispie, C. C. (ed.) Dictionary of Scientific Biography, New York: Charles Screibner's Sons
In Curaçao, another Dutch colony, the enclosure was called "koraal" which in Papiamentu is translated "kura" (still in use today for any enclosed terrain, like a garden).
Honti, László. Die Wogulische Sprache // The Uralic Languages. Description, History and Foreign Influences / ed. by Denis Sinor. Leiden, 1988. S. 147–171.
She ard thallooinit ayns Caacas Yiass eh Nagorno-Karabakh. T'eh ny lhie eddyr Karabakh Heese as Zangezur as t'eh coodaghey y reayn heear yiass jeh Sleityn ny Coagaash Beg.
I-Inhalation iyihafu yento eyenzekayo xa umntu okanye izilwanyana ziphefumla. Umoya osuka ngaphandle ungena ngaphakathi kwiphiphunga nge-respiratory system. Imiphunga ithatha inxalenye ye-oxygen iyifake egazini. Iziyobisi nazo zisenokupngena kwimiphunga yomntu. to put them into the blood. The air is then moved out of the lungs again. This is the other half of breathing, called exhalation.
Banks, Sir Joseph. The Endeavour Journal of Sir Joseph Banks, Warnakan manipud idi 25 Agosto 1768 – 12 Hulio 1771. Project Gutenberg. Magun-od pay idiay Wikisource.
Prince Philip, Duke o Edinburgh (born Prince Philip o Greece an Denmark on 10 Juin 1921) is the husband o Queen Elizabeth II. He is the langest-servin consort o a reignin Breetish monarch an the auldest-ever male member o the Breetish ryal faimily.
It is a tree growing to a height of 18–30 m tall with a trunk 50 cm to 1 m in diameter. The leaves are bipinnate, 7.5–15 cm long, with one to four pairs of pinnae, each pinna with 6–18 leaflets. The flowers are white, with numerous 2.5–3.8 cm long stamens, and very fragrant. The fruit is a pod 15–30 cm long and 2.5-5.0 cm broad, containing six to twelve seeds.
19 July, 20 July aur 24 July - 27 July - Fiji me soccer ke 32nd Battle of the Giants, Suva ke Post Fiji Stadium me khela gais rahaa, jiske final me Ba, Labasa ke 2-1 se harais.
(Ingelesez) Brian Knappenberger (Zuzendaria eta ekoizlea), The Internet's Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz. Participant Media: 2014. Via The Internet Archive, www.archive.org/ [105 minutu].
Her biggest achievement came durin the 2000 Simmer Olympics in Sydney whare she wan the bronze medal in doubles, pairtnerin Els Callens. Monami wan fower singles titles an reached a career-heich singles rankin o Warld No. 9 in October 1998.
There is typically pain and tenderness in the right iliac fossa in both typical and atypical (suppurative) appendicitis. Rebound tenderness may be present suggesting that there is some element of peritoneal irritation. Asking the patient to cough gently and point to the tender spot is the least painful way to localize the area of peritonitis. If the abdomen is involuntarily guarded (rigid), there should be a strong suspicion of peritonitis requiring urgent surgical intervention.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 19,839 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 133.04 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 7411.
Sà, v.t. to aim at, to apply medicine according to the direction of the doctor of the doctor, to employ. Ó sa oògùn sí i (He employed charms against him.)
Guma (1. Start to act - e.g. to talk; 2. Set in motion). Gumurai rumbo: start singing. Gumura dombo: start the stone rolling. Ndagumurwa mwoyo: my stomach is upset.
Awon isele yi fa idojuru pupo larin awon agbajo oniroyin ati awon oludari irinna ofurufu kakiri orile-ede Amerika. Gbogbo irinajo kariaye pelu baalu je fifofinde fun ojo meta lati bale sorile Amerika. Awon baalu to si n fo lowo nigbana je didarpada tabi titundidari si papa baalu ni Kanada tabi Meksiko. Isun iroyin segbejade iroyin tikolesenle tabi ti won tako ra won kakiri ojo na. Eyi gbalejulo ninu won so pe oko bombu kan ti be ni ibujoko Ile-ise Alakoso Oro Okere Amerika ni Washington, D.C. Leyin ti won ti koko royin nipa ikolu ni Pentagonu, awon ile-ise amohunmaworan iroyin tun royin fun gbadie pe ina ti n ja ni National Mall. Another report went out on the Associated Press wire, claiming that a Delta Air Lines airliner—Flight 1989—had been hijacked. This report, too, turned out to be in error; the plane was briefly thought to represent a hijack risk, but it responded to controllers and landed safely in Cleveland, Ohio.
IALI NGO has been authorized by terminologist Muwanga Charles to post this article from his Luganda scientific terminology works to Luganda Wikipedia for free public consumption.
There are many different ways in which wikis have users edit the content. Ordinarily, the structure and formatting of wiki pages are specified with a simplified markup language, sometimes known as "wikitext". For example, starting a line of text with an asterisk ("*") is often used to enter it in a bulleted list. The style and syntax of wikitexts can vary greatly among wiki implementations, some of which also allow HTML tags. The reason for taking this approach is that HTML, with its many cryptic tags, is not very legible, making it hard to edit. Wikis therefore favour plain text editing, with fewer and simpler conventions than HTML, for indicating style and structure. Although limiting access to HTML and cascading style sheets (CSS) of wikis limits user ability to alter the structure and formatting of wiki content, there are some benefits. Limited access to CSS promotes consistency in the look and feel and having JavaScript disabled prevents a user from implementing code, which may limit access for other users.
Cochrane has generously agreed to give free, full-access accounts to medical editors. Individual access would otherwise cost between $300 and $800 per account.
We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use {{#property:headquarter location}} instead of {{#property:p159}}. The complete plan for this is here.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
The staundart gauge (an aa Stephenson gauge named efter George Stephenson, Internaitional gauge, or normal gauge) is a widely uused railwey track gauge. Approximately 55% o the lines in the warld uise this gauge.
Haddad initially followed the Hanafi school of Sunni jurisprudence after his conversion to Islam but later adopted the Shafi'i school of Sunni jurisprudence. He stated he did so because: 1. He found it easier to study due to Shaykh Nuh Keller’s Reliance of the Traveler; 2. He found it more logical to practice because it is the main school of jurisprudence in Lebanon and because it is the school his wife follows and; 3. The founder of the school, Imam Shafi'i, was a member of the Quraysh tribe (the tribe of Muhammad) and Muhammad had told his followers to hold fast to the Quran and the members of his household.
Goetzmann, William N., Fibonacci and the Financial Revolution (October 23, 2003), Yale School of Management International Center for Finance Working Paper No. 03-28
Gazetteer for Scotland – Extensive guide to the places and people of Scotland, by the Royal Scottish Geographical Society and University of Edinburgh
January - Fiji ke Cricket team Australia ke tour pe gais rahaa. Ii team Queensland se, ek dui-din ke match me draw karis rahaa aur Pope Cakobau saat wicket liis rahaa.
Farrington, D. P. (1990a) Age, period, cohort, and offending. In Gottfredson, D.M. and Clarke, R.V. (Eds.) Policy and Theory in Criminal Justice: Contributions in Honour of Leslie T. Wilkins. Aldershot: Gower (pp. 51-75).
Blair, Emma Helen, and Robertson, James Alexander: "The Philippine Islands: 1493-1898," A Collection of sources. Cleveland, Ohio: The Arthur H. Clark Company, 1903-1909, 55 vols. 8 vo. Plates and maps.pahina 89, 90.
The Bleeding House ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Philip Gelatt ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Alexandra Chando, Patrick Breen, Nina Lisandrello, Betsy Aidem acting kiye the.
In Tombstone, Wyatt finds out that Ike Clanton is trying to herd thousands of head of rustled Mexican cattle but cannot as long as the Earps control Tombstone's railway station. Morgan Earp (DeForest Kelley) criticizes his brother's association with Holliday, but Wyatt insists the gunslinger is welcome in Tombstone as long as he stays out of trouble. Cotton, the cowardly county sheriff from Fort Griffin, offers Wyatt a $20,000 bribe (about $507,000 today) if he allows the stolen cattle to be shipped, but Wyatt refuses. He rides out to the Clanton ranch, returning young Billy Clanton (Dennis Hopper) to his mother after finding Billy drunk. Wyatt informs Ike that he has been made a U.S. Marshal and has legal authority in every county in the United States. Finding no recourse, the Clantons decide to ambush Wyatt as he makes his nightly rounds, but kill his younger brother James Earp (Martin Milner) by mistake.
"The Precious Necklace Regarding Weigh Scales" is a 18th-century manuscript by Abd al-Rahman al-Jabarti about the "design and operation" of scales
The Armistice of Salonica (also known as the Armistice of Thessalonica) was signed on 29 September 1918 between Bulgaria and the Allied Powers in Thessaloniki. The convention followed after a request by the Bulgarian government on 24 September asking for a ceasefire. The armistice effectively ended Bulgaria's participation in World War I on the side of the Central Powers and came into effect on the Bulgarian front at noon on 30 September. The armistice regulated the demobilization and disarmament of the Bulgarian armed forces.
In 1960 Chad obtained unthirldom unner the leadership o François Tombalbaye. Resentment towards his policies in the Muslim north culminatit in the eruption o a lang-lastin ceevil war in 1965. In 1979 the rebels conquered the caipital an put an end tae the sooth's hegemony. Housomeivver, the rebel commanders fought amangst thairsels till Hissène Habré defeatit his rivals. He wis owerthrown in 1990 bi his general Idriss Déby. Recently, the Darfur crisis in Sudan haes spilt ower the border an destabilised the naition, wi hunders o thoosans o Sudanese refugees livin in an aroond camps in eastren Chad.
Peter Goldblum, Dorothy L. Espelage, Joyce Chu jt, "Youth Suicide and Bullying: Challenges and Strategies for Prevention and Intervention", Oxford University Press, 2015
Li Direktion Koblenz is li Direktion por li fedaral states Rheinland-Palatinia, Hesse (except li Aeroport Frankfurt) e Saarland. Li Direktion have 5 Bundespolizeiinspektionen e 17 Bundespolizeireviere:
He was noted for his ability to project above the roaring crowds at the NHL arenas. He acknowledged that his booming call, "HE SHOOTS, HE SCORRRES!" was patterned after that of the famous long-time NHL announcer Foster Hewitt.
Page is an investor in Tesla Motors. He has invested in renewable energy technology, and with the help of Google.org, Google's philanthropic arm, promotes the adoption of plug-in hybrid electric cars and other alternative energy investments.
"Tana & Beles Integrated Water Resources Development: Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Vol.1", World Bank, 2 May 2008 (accessed 5 May 2009)
Aerovías de México, S.A. de C.V. (Airways of Mexico, SA de CV), operatin as AeroMéxico, is the flag carrier airline o Mexico based in Colonia Cuauhtémoc, Cuauhtémoc, Mexico Ceety. It operates scheduled domestic an internaitional services tae North Americae, Sooth Americae, Central Americae, Caribbean, Europe, an Asie. Its main base is Mexico Ceety Internaitional Airport in Mexico Ceety, wi seicontar hubs at Cancún Internaitional Airport, in Cancún, Guadalajara Internaitional Airport, in Guadalajara, an Monterrey Internaitional Airport, in Monterrey, an its focus ceeties at an Tijuana Internaitional Airport in Tijuana.
Masses isotòpiques de l'Ame2003 Atomic Mass Evaluation by G. Audi, A.H. Wapstra, C. Thibault, J. Blachot and O. Bersillon in Nuclear Physics A729 (2003).
The concept of an average can be applied to a stream of data as well as a bounded set, the goal being to find a value that recent data clusters about in some way. The stream may be distributed in time, as in samples taken by some data acquisition system from which we want to remove noise, or in space, as in pixels in an image from which we want to extract some property. An easy-to-understand and widely used application of average to a stream is the simple moving average in which we compute the arithmetic mean of the most recent N data items in the stream. To advance one position in the stream, we add 1/N times the new data item and subtract 1/N times the data item N places back in the stream.
(en) Heinz von Foerster, Margaret Mead e Hans Lukas Teuber: Cybernetics, Circular Causal and Feedback Mechanisms in Biological and Social Systems S/t Transactions of the Eight Conference, March 15-16, 1951, Nòva York, N.Y. ed Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation in actes de la 8a « conferéncia Macy » 1952 240p.
Most nation-states have anthems, defined as "a song, as of praise, devotion, or patriotism"; most anthems are either marches or hymns in style. A hymn can become a national anthem by a provision in the state's constitution, by a law enacted by its legislature, or simply by tradition. A royal anthem is a patriotic song similar to a national anthem, but it specifically praises or prays for a monarch or royal dynasty. Such anthems are usually performed at public appearances by the monarch or during other events of royal importance. Some states use the royal anthem as the national anthem, such as the anthem of Jordan.
... I do think the Internet’s under much greater attack than it has been in the past. Governments are now afraid of the Internet because of the Middle East stuff, and so they’re a little more willing to listen to what I see as a lot of commercial interests that just want to make money by restricting people’s freedoms. But they’ve also seen a tremendous user reaction, like the backlash against SOPA. I think that governments fight users’ freedoms at their own peril.
Dosedh poblans yw an niver a dus yn enep a vyns sertan. Rag ensampel, yma 10,364,388 a dus ow triga yn Pow Belg, unn wlas a 30,528 km². Ytho, dosedh Pow Belg yw 339 triger rag pub kilometer pedrek.
Geneva wis a Prince-Bishopric o the Holy Roman Empire frae 1154, but frae 1290, secular authority ower the citizens wis dividit frae the bishop's authority, at first anerlie lawer jurisdiction, the office o vidame gien tae François de Candie in 1314, but frae 1387 the bishops grantit the citizens o Geneva fou communal sel-govrenment. As frae 1416, the Dukes o Savoy attemptit tae annex the ceety, baith bi claimin secular authority an bi installin members o the Savoy dynasty as bishops, the ceety sought assistance in allyin itsel wi the Auld Swiss Confederacy. The Republic o Geneva wis proclaimit in 1541, unner John Calvin, an gien a constitution (Édits civils) in 1543. The Republic o Geneva reinforcit its alliance tae the Protestant cantons o the Swiss Confederacy, becomin an "iverlastin ally" in 1584.
JavaScript d tameslayt n usihel mebla compilation i tt-yesnulfan Brendan Eich (Netscape). JavaScript yeddu ala g lBrowser lameɛna tura nezmer ad t-nesseqdac g lBackend s Node.js.
In the April 2007 edition of the book, they added the last element, the rights and responsibilities of citizens to make it a total of ten elements of journalism.
EPM (ethylene propylene rubber, a copolymer of ethylene and propylene) and EPDM rubber (ethylene propylene diene rubber, a terpolymer of ethylene, propylene and a diene-component)
Some of the main types of human freedom are: freedom to life, freedom of association, freedom of belief, freedom of speech, freedom to express oneself, freedom of the press, freedom to choose one's state in life. However, the civil constitutions of each country have different definitions of the freedoms allowed to the citizens. It has been argued that any law limits freedom, since it sets limits on what people may do.
Kuvandurira (to go around in order to go in front, to go in a roundabout way, to go to the side of the road) Shoko iris rinokwanisa kuturikira chinonzi by-pass.
They are extremely important food for numerous species of birds, and also are eaten by other wild animals. In the autumn and early winter the fruits are hard and apparently unpalatable. After being frozen or frosted several times, the fruits soften, and become milder in taste. During winter storms, birds often take refuge in hollies, which provide shelter, protection from predators (by the spiny leaves), and food. The flowers are sometimes eaten by the larva of the double-striped pug moth (Gymnoscelis rufifasciata). Other Lepidoptera whose larvae feed on holly include Bucculatrix ilecella, which feeds exclusively on hollies, and the engrailed (Ectropis crepuscularia).
Aichie karyavolliche Mukhel Soire and Gõyche Mukhel Montri Manohar bab, Bannavle Motdarsongache amdar Caetano bab, Dalgado Konknni Akademi ghoddoun haddunk mhoje borabor hatak hat diun vavr kelole ani tech akademiche adle Sekretar ani President Tomazinho bab, Dalgado Konknni Akademiche atanche President Premanand bab, Sekretar Salvador bab, Dka-che Tizrer Walter bab, DKA-chie vavurpi somiteche vangddi, DKA-che vangddi, Tiatr Academy-che President Prince Jacob bab, Ravindra Bhavan-ache Odheokx Damu bab, Konknni borovpi, kolakar ani mogachiamno,
'The Triumph of Idealism', lecture by Professor Keith Ward offering a positive view of Idealism, at Gresham College, 13 March 2008 (available in text, audio, and video download)
The Delta Goodrem unreleased tapes dispute involves unreleased material recorded by Australian singer-songwriter Delta Goodrem in 1999 and 2000. Goodrem recorded thirteen tracks for an album given the working title Delta while signed to an artist development deal with the small independent label Empire Records. In 2004, after Goodrem had achieved mainstream success, Empire's owners attempted to shop the recordings to other labels, though Goodrem objected. The dispute led to a lawsuit, which was settled in mediation to the effect that the recordings would remain unreleased.
Talks on the new contract started on 5 January 1960. The farmers’ representatives were K.S. Reddy, P.G. Shankar, Ram Niwaz, Ranga Reddy and S.M. Koya, representing the Maha Sangh, Ram Swami Pillay, Shankaran Nair and Ram Narain representing a second faction of the Maha Sangh, Shiu Dutt, Biryam Singh, Bechu Prasad, Y. Subramaniam and A.D. Patel representing the Vishal Sangh, Vijay R. Singh and Girwar Prasad representing the Labasa Kisan Sangh, and J.P. Bayly, Shiu Nath, Abdul Gani and Ayodhya Prasad representing the Kisan Sangh. The united front did not last as the two Kisan Sanghs accepted the contract offered by the Company while the Maha Sanghs and Vishal Sangh opposed it and called their members out on strike. There were many cases of intimidation, damage to property burning of sugar cane. The crushing of sugar cane which normally begins in May was delayed until October and the growers suffered huge losses. Security forces were called out to break the strike. A Commission of Inquiry was set up and the growers were obliged to accept a contract that protected the millers from any financial risk and left the farmers with a worse outcome than they had had in the last contract.
David Javerbaum (class of 1989), writer and producer; head writer for The Daily Show, writer for The Onion, David Letterman and his own theatrical productions, first runner-up in 1988 Jeopardy! Teen Tournament.
MATLAB has structure data types. Since all variables in MATLAB are arrays, a more adequate name is "structure array", where each element of the array has the same field names. In addition, MATLAB supports dynamic field names (field look-ups by name, field manipulations, etc.). Unfortunately, MATLAB JIT does not support MATLAB structures, therefore just a simple bundling of various variables into a structure will come at a cost.[ଆଧାର ଲୋଡ଼ା]
The race was won from third on the grid by Juan Manuel Fangio for Mercedes. Ferrari drivers Nino Farina and Maurice Trintignant finished both second and third in two three-way shared drives with José Froilán González and Umberto Maglioli respectively.
(en) Fabio Spadi (2005) The ICJ Judgment in the Benin-Niger Border Dispute: the interplay of titles and ‘effectivités’ under the uti possidetis juris principle, Leiden Journal of International Law 18: 777-794 [2]
World War II me , Italy ke Africa me haar ke baad Asmara British rule. In 1952, the United Nations ke niche aais aur uu logan des ke aur Asmara ke Ethiopia ke niche kar diin. 1960s me , Eritrean log Ethiopia se ajaadi ke khatir larrai suru kar diin. Ii larrai 1991 talak chalaa. Asmara ke Eritrean log ke 24 May 1991 me lautaar dewa gais.
වයසර අවුරුදු 12 දී, Shakur enrolled in Harlem's 127th Street Repertory Ensemble and was cast as the Travis Younger character in the play A Raisin in the Sun, which was performed at the Apollo Theater. In 1986, the family relocated to Baltimore, Maryland. After completing his second year at Paul Laurence Dunbar High School, he transferred to the Baltimore School for the Arts, where he studied acting, poetry, jazz, and ballet. He performed in Shakespeare plays, and in the role of the Mouse King in the ballet The Nutcracker. Shakur, accompanied by one of his friends, Dana "Mouse" Smith, as his beatbox, won many rap competitions and was considered to be the best rapper in his school. He was remembered as one of the most popular kids in his school because of his sense of humor, superior rapping skills, and ability to mix with all crowds. He developed a close friendship with a young Jada Pinkett (later Jada Pinkett Smith) that lasted until his death.
Magnesium has many different uses. One of its most common uses was in industry, where it has many structural advantages over other materials such as aluminium, although this usage has fallen out of favor recently due to magnesium's flammability. Magnesium is also often alloyed with aluminium or zinc to form materials with more desirable properties than any pure metal. Magnesium has many other uses in industrial applications, such as having a role in the production of iron and steel, and the production of titanium.
Ta'n Reejerey John Major (ruggit 29 Mart 1943) ny pholitickeyr Goaldagh. Eddyr ny bleeantyn 1990 as 1997 v'eh ny 'er toshee er y Phartee Cumaadagh as ny Ard-vinishter y Reeriaght Unnaneysit. Car y traa echey myr ard-vinishter va'n seihll ayns lhing aistragh ny yei jerrey y Chaggey Feayr. Ghow eh scansh yn Unnaneys Oarpagh stiagh as y resoonaght mychione shickyraghey y Chonaant Maastricht. Myrane lesh y reiltys echey, va Major freggyrtagh ry hoi immeeaght y Reeriaght Unnaneysit veih'n Choghleashaght Chormid Choonree (CCC / ERM) ny yei Jecrean Ghoo er 16 Mean Fouyir 1992.
Barbados, Caribbean Sea ke ek island des hai. Ii island ke area 430 km² hai. Iske capital Bridgetown hai. Iske official bhasa English hai. Barbados ek popular tourist destination hai. Iske population 276 607 log hai.
Bhaskaranarayana etc. (2007), "Applications of space communication", Current Science, 93 (12): 1737-1746, Bangalore: Indian Academy of Sciences.
There is a pronunciation difference atween the Taiwanese Hakka dialect an the Guangdong Hakka dialect. Amang the dialects o Hakka, the Moi-yen/Moi-yan (梅縣, Pinyin: Méixiàn) dialect o northeast Guangdong haes been typically viewed as a prime example o the Hakka leid, formin a sort o staundart dialect.
Weber discussed what influence Hinduism and Buddhism had on the mundane activities, and how they impacted the economy. He noted the idea of unchanging world order consisting of the eternal cycles of rebirth, and the deprecation of mundane world. By the traditionalism of the Varna system supported by the dharma, the economic development is slowed as, - according to Weber - the "spirit" of the varna system worked against the development of capitalism.
More undergraduate and postgraduate programmes will be launched in the Karampura campus from 2017-18 onwards. It is expected to accommodate approximately 2200 students by 2019.
Scotland (Gaelic: Alba, Inglis: Scotland) is a kintra in nor-wast Europe, an is ane o the fower kintras that maks the Unitit Kinrick. It taks up the northren thrid o the Breetish island. Scotland haes til its sooth the laund o Ingland, an is bund bi the German Ocean til the eist an the Atlantic Ocean til the north an wast.
The thermal columns in the convection zone form an imprint on the surface of the Sun, in the form of the solar granulation and supergranulation. The turbulent convection of this outer part of the solar interior gives rise to a 'small-scale' dynamo that produces magnetic north and south poles all over the surface of the Sun.
As part of his ontological project, Heidegger undertakes a reinterpretation of previous Western philosophy. He wants to explain why and how theoretical knowledge came to seem like the most fundamental relation to being. This explanation takes the form of a destructuring (Destruktion) of the philosophical tradition, an interpretive strategy that reveals the fundamental experience of being at the base of previous philosophies that had become entrenched and hidden within the theoretical attitude prevalent in the history of philosophy in its metaphysics of presence. Such "destruktion", is to be read not only in its negative sense but also in the positive sense of recovery. In Being and Time he briefly destructures the philosophy of Descartes though the second half of the book which was intended to be a Destruktion was never written; in later works he uses this approach to interpret the philosophies of Aristotle, Kant, Hegel, and Plato, among others. This technique exerted a profound influence on Derrida's deconstructive approach, although there are very important differences between the two methods.
An Kowethas Gwitha Hyns-horn Bosvena (Bodmin Railway Preservation Society) veu formyes yn 1984 ha'ga kensa dydh yger dhe Vosvena Ollgemmyn o dew vledhen wosa henna. Yn 1987 an Kowethas Lokomotyv Ethen Kernowek (Cornish steam Locomotive Society) a wayas aga daffar dhyworth Karnrosveur dhe Vosvena.
Wikimedia Commons is happy to announce that the 2012 Picture of the Year competition is now open. We're interested in your opinion as to which images qualify to be the Picture of the Year for 2012. Voting is open to established Wikimedia users who meet the following criteria:
The tower, the only vestige of the lord’s castle of de Buci, a fortress offering a strategic refuge dominating the valleys de la Brosse and de la Gondoire, dated from 12th century. The current place de Verdun is on the previous location of the castle, which was surrounded by the ditches filled with water by the same source of a fountain which still exists in the place du marché. The graveyard, in the north of the tower, beyond the fortifications, was discovered during a private house building in 1960. The tower is 21 meters high and 9 meters large.
William Joseph Kennedy, Jr. (born February 2, 1964) is the head men's basketball coach at Texas A&M University. He took over the position vacated by Mark Turgeon in May 2011. He previously held the same position at Murray State University for five seasons.
Lawer Saxony borders on (frae north an clockwise) the North Sea, the states o Schleswig-Holstein, Hamburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Brandenburg, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringie, Hesse an North Rhine-Westphalie, an the Kinrick o the Netherlands. In fact, Lawer Saxony borders mair neighbours than ony ither single federal state. The state o Bremen forms twa enclaves athin Lawer Saxony, ane being the ceety o Bremen, the ither, its seaport ceety o Bremerhaven. The state's principal ceeties include Hanover, Brunswick, Lüneburg, Osnabrück, Oldenburg, an Göttingen.
Un scoren a phylologyl yu yethydhyeth ystorek. Hevelepterow ynter Sanskrit ha'n yethow europek a vue notyes yn kensa y'n 18ves cansvledhen avar, hag a ledyas dhe'n dyskevrans a proto-yndo-europek. Bern phylologyl yn hen yethow a hembronkyas dhe'n studhyans a byu y'n 19ves cansvledhen o yethow estranjek rag an golow a allsons y tewlel y'n understondyans ha dyskevrans y'n cotha testennow.
While leading in the men's marathon with less than 10 kilometres to go, Brazilian runner Vanderlei de Lima is attacked by Irish priest Cornelius Horan and dragged into the crowd. De Lima recovered to take bronze, and was later awarded the Pierre de Coubertin medal for sportsmanship.
After the War he became Commander of the Penang Sub-Area and of 74th Indian Infantry Brigade in Malaya. He was appointed Commander of 72nd Indian Infantry Brigade in 1946, Commandant of the School of Combined Operations in 1947 and Commander of 151st Northumberland and Durham Light Infantry Brigade in 1949. He went on to be Commander of the British Military Mission to Greece in 1951 and General Officer Commanding the South Malaya District and 17th Gurkha Division and Major General commanding the Brigade of Gurkhas in 1952 before he retired in 1955.
Ta'n ennym Dyfed freilt echey son obbyr jesh-chliaghtagh ynrican, myr sampleyr, y Lord Lieutenant, as ayns ennym shiartanse dy heshaghtyn: myr sampleyr, yr Heddlu Dyfed-Powys (Meoiryn-shee ny daa ard).
pààlà, v.t. to mark boundary of land or territory, to demarcate boundary between land or territory. A pààlà oko wa. (We demarcated the boundary between our farms.)
Logistics and service support is provided through Headquarters F-FDTL in Dili. There is also a military police unit that polices the F-FDTL and in addition performs traditional policing tasks, resulting in conflicting roles with the PNTL. The military police have also been responsible for presidential security since February 2007. The F-FDTL is planning to raise two engineer squadrons with a total of 125 personnel during 2010.
Before Silicon Valley's two most prominent investors, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital, agreed to invest a combined total of $50 million into Google, they applied pressure on Page to step down as CEO so that a more experienced leader could build a "world-class management team." Page eventually became amenable to the idea after meeting with other technology CEOs, including Steve Jobs and Intel’s Andrew Grove. Eric Schmidt, who had been hired as Chairman of Google in March 2001, left his full-time position as the CEO of Novell to take on the same role at Google in August of the same year, and Page moved aside to assume the President of Products role.
The 1200 class was retired by the NS in 1998. Locomotives 1201, 1202 and 1211 were obtained for preservation by the Stichting Klassieke Locomotieven group (1201) and the Dutch Railway Museum (1202 and 1211). A further five locomotives, numbers 1214, 1215, 1218, 1221 and 1225, were bought by the Dutch freight operator ACTS Nederland BV in 1999 and were renumbered to 1251–1255.
Auchreddie (Inglis: New Deer, Scots Gaelic: Achadh Reite) is a dounset in Aiberdeenshire, North East Scotland. It wis foondit efter monks frae Deer Aibey, Auld Deer biggit a chapel at Auchreddie. Aroond 1507 the register o Deer Aibey leets its launds in the "new paroche o Deir".
1 Pedru / 1 Peter 2 : 9–10 - Punn tumi Devan vinchun kaddlolem kull; tumi teach Deva Raiache iadnik; tumi Devachê sevek sonvskarlolem raxttr; tumi Devan Apli korun ghetloli porza. Tannench tumkam patkachea kallokhantlim bhair kaddun Aplea mhoimêbhorit uzvaddak pavoileant. Tumchê khatir Apnnem kel’lim ojapanchim kortutvam tumi vakhannchê khatir Devan tumkam vinchun kaddleant. 10 Adim tumi Devachi porza nhoi asleat, punn atam tumi Tachi porza zaleant; adim tumkam Devachi kaklut mellunk nasli, punn atam tumkam Tachi kaklut mell’llea. / But you are “a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own, so that you may announce the praises” of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. 10 Once you were “no people” but now you are God’s people; you “had not received mercy” but now you have received mercy.
On 5 Februar 2008, Sodi marriet Mexican actor Diego Luna. Sodi gave birth tae her son namit Jerónimo Luna on 12 August 2008. Sodi gave birth tae her dochter Fiona Luna on 1 Julie 2010. She is namit efter Diego Luna's mither, who wis killed in a caur accident whan he wis two.
Pambak (Armenie: Փամբակ, Romanisit as P’ambak) is a toun in the Gegharkunik Province o Armenie. The toun haes kirks, a caravanserai, an cemeteries.
Ma nebes syllabednow gwadn screfys yn tyffrans, r.e. onen in KS, onan in FSS. Ma KS ow ûsya th ha f inwedh in syllabednow gwadn (eleth, esof).
Condition ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Andrei Severny ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jessica Kaye, Ella Lentini, Steve Moshier acting kiye the.
In 1820, Jeremiah joined his brother Charles in starting their own lock company, Chubb. Chubb made various improvements to his lock: his 1824 improved design didn't require a special regulator key to reset the lock; by 1847 his keys used six levers rather than four; and he later introduced a disc that allowed the key to pass but narrowed the field of view, hiding the levers from anybody attempting to pick the lock. The Chubb brothers also received a patent for the first burglar-resisting safe and began production in 1835.
Staatliches Bauhaus , commonly kent simply as Bauhaus, wis an airt schuil in Germany that combined crafts an the fine airts, an wis famous for the approach tae design that it publicised an taucht.
Silver +1 oxidation state me ion ke ruup me rahe hae, compounds me jaise kisilver(I) oxide. Kuchh compound +2 oxidation state me rahe hae aur ii bahut tagrraa oxidizing agent rahe hae. Silver ke compound gray, black, brown, nai to ujjar rahe sake hae. Silver ke compund ke disinfectant ke rakam me kaam me lwa jaae sake hae.
Species Profile- Cogongrass (Imperata cylindrica), National Invasive Species Information Center, United States National Agricultural Library. Lists general information and resources for Cogongrass.
Wor'talleth an 20ves kansvledhen yth esa res dhe vagas a dus bal a Lannust drehedhes dhe Gernow dhyworth Afrika Dyghow awos an Nessa Bell Boer. I a worbrenas an arenebedh ha gul lower a ober prospektya, ow ledya dhe rondyans a gompani henwys Levant North (Hwel Gever) yn 1901. Prenys veu an hwel gans an Kompani Strothys Gwel Owr Ostralek (Australian Gold Field Company Ltd) yn 1904, an kompani ma a dhrias nebes balyow erel y'n arenebedh war-barth, ow tevnydhya an hanow Balyow Strothys Sten Gever.
The botija (botijuela; bunga) is a Caribbean musical instrument of the aerophone type. The botija is a potbellied earthenware jug or jar with two openings and was used in the early son sextetos in Cuba as a bass instrument.
Dickinson, H. W. and Hugh Pembroke Vowles James Watt and the Industrial Revolution（published in 1943, new edition 1948 and reprinted in 1949. Also published in Spanish and Portuguese (1944) by the British Council）
The concept of “enfundiwazo” (abbreviations) is from the Luganda word “okufunza ebigambo” ( to abbreviate) meaning using initials of a word.
Johnson began performing at age six and has appeared in films such as Shanghai Knights (2003), playing a young Charlie Chaplin, The Illusionist (2006) and Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging (2008). He had his breakthrough performance in the John Lennon biopic Nowhere Boy (2009). He went on to portray Ben in the Oliver Stone-directed crime thriller Savages (2012), Russian aristocrat Count Vronsky in Joe Wright's adaptation of Anna Karenina (2012) and Lt. Brody in Gareth Edwards' monster movie Godzilla (2014). For his performance as psychopathic drifter Ray Marcus in Tom Ford's thriller Nocturnal Animals (2016), he won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture and was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role.
Qubadli (Qubadlı) is a rayon o Azerbaijan. The region haes been unner the control o the breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, as pairt o its Qashatagh Province, syne the Nagorno-Karabakh War. Accordin tae the last Soviet census o 1989, population wis 28,110. Accordin tae undatit Azerbaijani data, the population wis 34,100.
MUSSER, G. G.; CARLETON, M. D. Superfamily Muroidea. In: WILSON, D. Y.; REEDER, D. M. (Eds.). Mammal Species of the World: A Taxonomic and Geographic Reference. 3. ed. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2005. v. 2, p. 894-1531.
South African Sign Language (SASL) is the official sign language used by Deaf people in South Africa. It is not an official language of South Africa. The South African government added a National Language Unit for South African Sign Language in 2001. SASL is not the only sign language used in South Africa, but it is the language that is being promoted as the language to be used by all Deaf people in South Africa, although the Deaf in South Africa historically do not form a single group.
Casablanca is a 1942 American romantic drama film directit bi Michael Curtiz an based on Murray Burnett an Joan Alison's un-produced stage play Everybody Comes to Rick's. The film starns Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman, an Paul Henreid; an features Claude Rains, Conrad Veidt, Sydney Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, an Dooley Wilson. Set durin Warld War II, it focuses on a man torn atween, in the wirds o ane character, "love an virtue". He must choose atween his love for a woman an helpin her Czech Resistance leader husband escape the Vichy-controlled Moroccan ceety o Casablanca tae continue his ficht against the Nazis.
We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use {{#property:chief executive officer}} instead of {{#property:p169}}. The complete plan for this is here.
Indian infantry, supported by the only Indian armored division, quickly pushed back unprepared Pakistani defenders with the aim of encircling and possibly besieging Lahore. Due to the element of surprise, India was able to capture a large amount of Pakistani territory from the town of Khalra, an Indian border town which lies on a straight road to Lahore through Burki. In the meantime, the Pakistani Army mobilized the troops in the region and mounted a three-pronged counterattack to recapture lost ground. The Battle of Burki was subsequently fought on Khalra-Burki- Lahore road.
«Norwegian Wood (This Bird Has Flown)» (1965), «Love You To» (1966), «Tomorrow Never Knows» (1966), «Within You Without You» (1967) og «The Inner Light» (1968) av The Beatles
1877 (MDCCCLXXVII) wis a common year stairtin on Monanday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter G), the 1877t year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 877t year o the 2nt millennium, the 77t year o the 19t century, an the 8t year o the 1870s decade atween 1583 an 1929 an wi Julian Value: 1877 is 12 calendar days difference, which continued tae be uised till the complete conversion o the Gregorian calendar wis entirely duin in 1929.
Himma, Kenneth Einar. Design Arguments for the Existence of God. Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy: 2. Contemporary Versions of the Design Argument, a. The Argument from Irreducible Biochemical Complexity
In accordance with a more cohesive team environment, Page declared a new "zero tolerance for fighting" policy that contrasted with his approach during the early days of Google, when he would use his harsh and intense arguments with Brin as an exemplar for senior management. Page had changed his thinking during his time away from the CEO role, as he eventually arrived at the conclusion that his greatly ambitious goals required a harmonious team dynamic. As part of Page's collaborative rejuvenation process, Google's products and applications were consolidated and underwent an aesthetic overhaul.
A wiki invites all users to edit any page or to create new pages within the wiki Web site, using only a plain-vanilla Web browser without any extra add-ons.
China Town ek 1962 mein bana Hindi film hain. Yea film India mein Shakti Samanta ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Shammi Kapoor, Shakila, Helen, Madan Puri acting kiye the.
In 2000, Dragon Super Rangers FC played it first match of the league against Etoile de Jabe. The club's legend Mukinje Jean Marie Vianney scored the club's historic first goal in the league. The club finished third in the league table and was promoted in the third division.
Anticoli Corrado is a comune (municipality) in the Province o Roum in the Italian region o Lazio, locatit aboot 40 km northeast o Roum. As o 31 Dizember 2004, it haed a population of 932 an a aurie o 16.3 km².
Mexico, offeecially the Unitit Mexican States, is a kintra on the North American continent. It is bund bi Unitit States tae the north, an Belize an Guatemala tae the sooth. Mexico spleet frae Spain in 1821.
About a Boy ek 2002 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK, USA, France, Germany mein Chris Weitz, Paul Weitz ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Hugh Grant, Nicholas Hoult, Sharon Small, Madison Cook acting kiye the.
On March 12, 1990, at the NFL's annual meeting in Orlando, Florida, new four-year TV agreements were ratified for the 1990–1993 seasons. The networks involved were ABC, CBS, NBC, ESPN, and TNT. The contracts totaled US$3.6 billion, the largest in TV history.
Carvajal appeared in 45 matches in his first season and scored twice, in the league against Rayo Vallecano and CA Osasuna. He added 120 minutes in the Champions League final, a 4–1 triumph over Atlético Madrid.
The devotion was traditionally recited in Roman Catholic churches, convents, and monasteries three times daily: 6:00 am, noon, and 6:00 pm (many churches still follow the devotion, and some practice it at home). The devotion is also used by some Anglican and Lutheran churches.
In 121 BC, Han forces expelled the Xiongnu from a vast territory spanning the Hexi Corridor to Lop Nur. They repelled a joint Xiongnu-Qiang invasion of this northwestern territory in 111 BC. In that year, the Han court established four new frontier commanderies in this region: Jiuquan, Zhangyi, Dunhuang, and Wuwei. The majority of people on the frontier were soldiers. On occasion, the court forcibly moved peasant farmers to new frontier settlements, along with government-owned slaves and convicts who performed hard labor. The court also encouraged commoners, such as farmers, merchants, landowners, and hired laborers, to voluntarily migrate to the frontier.
Édouard Daladier (French: [edwaʁ daladje]; 18 Juin 1884 – 10 October 1970) wis a French Radical politeecian an the Prime Meenister o Fraunce at the stairt o the Seicont Warld War.
As with any enterprise, the Organizing Committee and everyone involved with it relied heavily on technology in order to deliver a successful event. ATHOC maintained two separate data networks, one for the preparation of the Games (known as the Administrative network) and one for the Games themselves (Games Network). The technical infrastructure involved more than 11,000 computers, over 600 servers, 2,000 printers, 23,000 fixed-line telephone devices, 9,000 mobile phones, 12,000 TETRA devices, 16,000 TV and video devices and 17 Video Walls interconnected by more than 6,000 kilometers of cabling (both optical fiber and twisted pair).
Bennett, A., 1994, Technical examination and conservation, Chapter 2 in The Sevso Treasure Part One, Journal of Roman Archaeology, Supplementary Series
Dairy - Dallas - Damascus - Danner - Days Creek - Dayton - Dayville - Deadwood - Dee - Deerhorn - Deer Island - Denmark - Depoe Bay - Detroit - Dexter - Diamond - Diamond Lake - Dillard - Dilley - Disston - Donald - Dorena - Drain - Drew - Drewsey - Dufur - Dundee - Dunes City - Dunthorpe - Durham - Durkee
હઝારે also took steps to stop the second big problem, soil erosion. In order to conserve soil and water by checking the run off, contour trenches and gully plugs were constructed along the hill slopes. Grass, shrubs and about 3 lakh ( 300,000) trees were planted along the hillside and the village. This process was supplemented by afforestation, nullah bunds, underground check dams and cemented bandhras at strategic locations. The Watershed Development programme became a huge success and helped increase the fortunes of many farmers as they now had a reliable source of water. Ralegan has also experimented with drip and bi-valve irrigation in a big way. Papaya, lemon and chillies have been planted on a plot of 80 acres (320,000 m2) entirely irrigated by the drip irrigation system. Cultivation of water-intensive crops like sugar cane was banned. Crops such as pulses, oilseeds and certain cash crops with low water requirements were grown. The farmers started growing high yield varieties of crop and the cropping pattern of the village also changed. He has helped farmers of more than 70 villages in drought-prone regions in the state of Maharashtra since 1975.
Cartoon Network has featured Generator Rex and Ben 10 in their and DC Comics's Cartoon Network: Action Pack comic books. Two 3D picture books (featuring cardboard 3D glasses) "EVOs and Heroes," a whole analysis on characters and their abilities and "The Swarm," an adaption of the episode of the same name, where Rex must fight insect E.V.O.s that feed on metal, have also been released. For beginning readers, the story "Leader of the Pack" is also based on an episode and features Rex and Bobo being captured and locked in an underground prison cell.
The Fundraising Committee is issuing all interested community members a challenge: we want you to beat Jimmy. The appeal from Jimmy Wales and the corresponding banner have been tested head-to-head with other successful banners, and the results are clear: it's our best performing message... by a lot. This year we have a lofty fundraising goal; we need all of our banners to bring in donations like the Jimmy Appeal, but no one wants to keep the Jimmy banner up for two months. We want to run donor quotes, and other wonderful ideas, but we have to have banners that work as well as or better than the Jimmy appeal.
Louise Riotte, Roses Love Garlic: Companion Planting and Other Secrets of Flowers, Google'i raamatu veebiversioon (vaadatud 11.05.2014) (inglise keeles)
"(t)In order to strengthen the global multistakeholder interaction and cooperation on public policy issues and developmental aspects relating to Imicungire n'Imiyoborere ya Interineti we propose a Urubuga. This Urubuga should not replace existing mechanisms or institutions but should build on the existing structures on Imicungire n'Imiyoborere ya Interineti, should contribute to the sustainability, stability and robustness of the Internet by addressing appropriately public policy issues that are not otherwise being adequately addressed excluding any involvement in the day to day operation of the Internet. It should be constituted as a neutral, non-duplicative and non-binding process to facilitate the exchange of information and best practices and to identify issues and make known its findings, to enhance awareness and build consensus and engagement. Recognizing the rapid development of technology and institutions, we propose thkuri Urubuga mechanism periodically be reviewed to determine the need for its continuation.”
Prior to the closing montage, the network's final NBA game broadcast on June 14, 1990 ended with this sign-off by Dick Stockton: Plantilla:Quote
Dennys Frenez & Maurizio Tosi The Lothal Sealings: Records from an Indus Civilization Town at the Eastern End of the Maritime Trade Circuits across the Arabian Sea, in M. Perna (Ed.), Studi in Onore di Enrica Fiandra. Contributi di archeologia egea e vicinorientale, Naples 2005, pp. 65–103.
Bharotachea sonvidhanant (Constitution) unnea ankddeanchea lokam (minorities) khatir kaim khaxele hokk asat. Tantlo ek hokk mhonnlear bhas, lipi ani sonvskruti samballop. Sonvidhanacho ankddo 29 oxem sangta: Protection of interests of minorities. (1) “Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same.” Mhonntoch Gõychea Kristavamni aple Konknni khatir Roman lipi samballunk ani ti fuddem kaddunk koslich addkholl konnench haddunk zaina.
The Kids Society Forgot, 1990: Multi-story issue on the foster-care system, illuminating the lives of 700 Butte County children who were taken away from their parents
Aastal 2007 kaitses doktoritöö "Diversity of lichen species in Estonia: influence of regional and local factors" (Samblike liigiline mitmekesisus Eestis: regionaalsete ja lokaalsete tegurite mõju).
Fotopoulos, Takis (2005). The Multidimensional Crisis and Inclusive Democracy]. International Journal of Inclusive Democracy. (English translation of a book under the same title published in Greek, Athens: Gordios, 2005.)
The ceety haes a fine frontage on the Guwf o Petrozavodsk. The modren embankment, inauguratit in 1994, displays an assortment o Karelie granites an marbles. It is lined wi extravagant postmodernist sculptures presented bi sister ceeties o Petrozavodsk frae aroond the warld. Thare is a birch copse an aw, whaur the first kirk o Petrozavodsk wis built in 1703.
In January 1953, the Indian delegation in Portugal (a representative body of the Indian government), sought to negotiate with Portugal on the issue of its territories in India. The Indian government offered a direct transfer; however, the Portuguese refused and diplomatic relations between the two countries deteriorated. On 11 June 1953, the Indian delegation in Lisbon was closedप्रारूप:Citation needed and diplomatic ties were formally severed. In July 1953, Nehru stated that the Indian government's position involved French and Portuguese colonies in India integrating into the Indian Union.प्रारूप:Citation needed Despite Nehru clearly stating India's policy in relation to colonial outposts, Portugal and France refused to cede their colonies. Subsequently, India launched a campaign through the UN in an attempt to persuade the Portuguese to leave India peacefully.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 83,084 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 128.89 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 2302.
In an Eprel 2009 article for the London Times Higher academic newspaper, the philosopher Martin Cohen predicted that this 'bottom-up' model would in due course supersede the ambitious "libraries of All Knowledge' like Wikipedia and Citizendium.
Although the model described above is traditionally taught in medical schools, histories of patients operated for appendicitis do not often correlate well with such a single disease progression. Specifically, those with atypical histories have findings at surgery that are consistent with a suppurative process that starts at the onset of symptoms and then smolders. Patients with typical histories may have findings suggesting resolution. Histories to suggest rupture of the appendix while patients are being diagnostically observed are exceedingly rare.
The flood dislodged thousands of peasant farmers, many of whom joined roving bandit and rebel groups such as the Red Eyebrows to survive. Wang Mang's armies were incapable of quelling these enlarged rebel groups. Eventually, an insurgent mob forced their way into the Weiyang Palace and killed Wang Mang.
A subset of this group includes pagsasao that have been heavily influenced by American Sign Pagsasao (ASL), or are regional varieties of ASL. Bolivian Sign Pagsasao is sometimes considered a dialect of ASL. Thai Sign Pagsasao is a mixed pagsasao derived from ASL and the native sign pagsasao of Bangkok and Chiang Mai, and may be considered part of the ASL family. Others possibly influenced by ASL include Ugandan Sign Pagsasao, Kenyan Sign Pagsasao, Philippine Sign Pagsasao and Malaysian Sign Pagsasao.
A binary nombor can be represented by any sequence of bits (binary digits), which in turn may be represented by any mechanism capable of being in two mutually exclusive states. The following sequences of symbols could all be interpreted as the binary numeric value of 667:
Female : Tailless. Above, the butterfly is grey-brown. It has dark stripes in between the veins. It has a large pale patch below vein 2 on the upper forewing.
MATLAB can call functions and subroutines written in the C programming language or Fortran. A wrapper function is created allowing MATLAB data types to be passed and returned. The dynamically loadable object files created by compiling such functions are termed "MEX-files" (for MATLAB executable).
Agnieszka Osiecka (9 October 1936 – 7 March 1997) was a poet, writer, author of theatre and television screenplays, film director and journalist. She was a prominent Polish songwriter, having authored the lyrics to more than 2000 songs, and is considered an icon of Polish culture.
James Augustine Aloysius Joyce (2 February 1882 – 13 January 1941) je olukowe ati ako-ewi omo Irelandi, to je gbigba gege bi ikan ninu awon olukowe to ipa julo ni orundun 20. Pelu Marcel Proust, Virginia Woolf, ati awon yioku, Joyce ko ipa pataki ninu igbega itan-aroko odeoni. O gbajumo fun iwe re bi Ulysses (1922) ati Dubliners (1914), A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (1916) ati Finnegans Wake (1939).
For the 1992−93 school year, Columbia High School received the National Blue Ribbon Award of Excellence from the United States Department of Education, the highest honor that an American school can achieve.
The ceety wis occupeed bi Finnish troops for nearly three years afore it wis retaken bi Soviet forces on 28 Juin 1944. The Finns set up concentration camps for the civilians which they operatit till the Red Airmy reoccupeed the aurie. The first camp wis locatit at Petrozavodsk (October 24, 1940). Sax such camps wur set up in Petrozavodsk, wi aboot 25,000 weemen, childer an auld fowk confined in them. Ane source estimatit 4,000 fowk perished thare, primarily acause o malnourishment, maist dyin durin the ware an simmer o 1942.
In 2004, the municipality o Artemisa haed a population o 81,209. Wi a total aurie o 690 km2 (270 sq mi), it haes a population densitie o 117.7/km2 (305/sq mi).
In Fort Griffin, Texas, Ed Bailey (Lee Van Cleef) comes looking to avenge the death of his brother at the hands of gunslinger John H. "Doc" Holliday (Kirk Douglas). Seeing him in a bar, Holliday's girl, Kate Fisher (Jo Van Fleet), returns to Holliday's room, where the two argue—while Holliday throws knives at the wall—once she brings up Holliday's once-prominent family. At the same time, well-known marshal Wyatt Earp (Burt Lancaster) arrives in Fort Griffin thinking he will take outlaws Ike Clanton (Lyle Bettger) and Johnny Ringo (John Ireland) into custody, but instead finds out that the local sheriff, Cotton Wilson (Frank Faylen), released them despite the outstanding warrants for their arrest. Holliday refuses to help the lawman, holding a grudge against Wyatt's brother, Morgan (DeForest Kelley). Holliday kills Bailey with a knife-throw when Bailey attempts to shoot him in the back. Holliday is arrested for murder, though Wyatt and Kate allow him to escape from a lynch mob.
The FTC robotics team 4102, founded in 2011, placed first in the New Jersey FTC state championships during its rookie year in 2011 and again in 2013, qualifying for the FTC World Championship both times and placing as a finalist both years. The team returned to the World Championship in 2017.
Korjenkov is a member of the Kyrgyz Institute of Seismology and the Kyrgyz Academy of Sciences. One of his papers is based on his geological research into the Chong-Kemin Valley, entitled, "Long-Term Preservation of Paleoseismic Deformations as a Tool for Revealing Traces of Ancient Seismic Catastrophes".
Mucedda M, Kiefer A, Pidinchedda E & Veith M, A new species of long-eared bat (Chiroptra, Vespertilionidae) from Sardinia (Italy) , , 2002. 121-135
Unner the Cronquist seestem, maist o the faimilies gien abuin wis placed in the Rosales. The Oxalidaceae wis placed in the Geraniales, an the Elaeocarpaceae split atween the Malvales an Polygalales, in the latter case bein treatit as the Tremandraceae.
The house is a 56 foot by 32 foot glass rectangle, sited at the edge of a crest on Johnson's estate overlooking a pond. The building's sides are glass and charcoal-painted steel; the floor, of brick, is not flush with the ground but sits 10 inches above. The interior is an open space divided by low walnut cabinets; a brick cylinder contains the bathroom and is the only object to reach floor to ceiling. The New York Times described it in 2005 as "one of the 20th century's greatest residential structures. "Like all of Johnson's early work, it was inspired by Mies, but its pure symmetry, dark colors and closeness to the earth marked it as a personal statement; calm and ordered rather than sleek and brittle."
In 1986 Johnson and Burgee had moved their offices into one of their new buildings, the Lipstick building, the popular name of the skyscraper they built at 885 Third Avenue in New York, and given its nickname because of its resemblance to the color and shape of a stick of lipstick. Burgee, who wanted to play a larger role in the firm negotiated a smaller part for Johnson, and in 1988 the firm's name was changed to John Burgee Architects with Philip as the design consultant. By 1991 Johnson had split with Burgee and opened up his own practice.
Complete translation on-line into English of all 108 Upaniṣad-s [not only the 11 (or so) major ones to which the foregoing links are meagerly restricted]-- lacking, however, diacritical marks
Kaynak Statistics Canada, 2006 Census Profile of Federal Electoral Districts (2003 Representation Order): Language, Mobility and Migration and Immigration and Citizenship Ottawa, 2007, pp. 2, 6, 10.
E. Myles Standish. "Report of the IAU WGAS Sub-group on Numerical Standards". In Highlights of Astronomy, I. Appenzeller, ed. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1995. (Complete report available online: PostScript. Tables from the report also available: Astrodynamic Constants and Parameters)
Ta'n Reeriaght Unnaneysit ny steat unnaneagh as t'eh jeant seose jeh kiare çheeraghyn: Bretin, Nalbin, Nerin Hwoaie as Sostyn. T'eh reillit liorish corys ard-whaiylagh lesh soiaghey yn reiltys ayns y preeu-valley Lunnin, agh ta tree reiraghyn ashoonagh jeeveanit ayns Beeal Feirshtey, Cayr Deeth as Doon Edin, preeu-valjyn Nerin Hwoaie, Vretin, as ny h-Albey. Ta'n RU ny reeriaght vunraghtoil lesh Benrein Ealisaid II myr ben hoshee y steat. She Croghaneyn-Crooin Ellanyn Vooir Eeaght as Mannin as cha nel ad nyn gooid jeh'n RU, agh t'ad jannoo conastey lesh. Ta kiare thallooyn har mooir Goaldagh jeig ec yn RU, as t'ad nyn remladyn jeh'n Impiraght Ghoaldagh, yn impiraght smoo ayns shennaghys y theihill. Ta'n Venrein Ealisaid II foast ny ben hoshee er Co-unnaneys ny h-Ashoonyn as ny ben hoshee er dagh ream co-unnaneysagh.
OTA by SMS is not limited to cellular network operators. OTA messages may also be generated by third parties and sent directly to the handset. For example, UK VoIP operator aql uses an OTA configuration message to automatically configure the SIP VoIP client on Nokia's E-Series handsets when users sign up for their mobile VoIP service.
In late spring to midsummer, white flowers are produced that are 2 mm (0.079 inches) in diameter with reflexed petals that are ovate-lanceolate in shape and 1.5–2 cm (5⁄8–3⁄4 inch) long. Inflorescences are made up of compound terminal cymes, with large showy white bracts that resemble petals. The bracts are broadly ovate and 0.8 to 1.2 cm (5⁄16 to 1⁄2 inch) long and 0.5 to 1.1 cm (3⁄16 to 7⁄16 inch) wide, with 7 parallel running veins. The lower nodes on the stem have greatly reduced rudimentary leaves. The calyx tube is obovate in shape and 1 mm long, covered with densely pubescent hairs along with grayish white appressed trichomes. Stamens are very short, being 1 mm long. The anthers are yellowish white in color, narrowly ovoid in shape. The styles are 1 mm long and glabrous. Plants are for the most part self-sterile and dependent on pollinators for sexual reproduction. Pollinators include bumblebees, solitary bees, beeflies, and syrphid flies. The fruits look like berries but are drupes.
In 1786, King Charles III o Spain renamit the ceety tae the 'lyal an valiant' Villa o Cochabamba. This wis done tae commend the ceety's pivotal role in suppressin the indigenous rebellions o 1781 in Oruro bi sendin airmit forces tae Oruro tae quell the uprisins. Syne the late 19th century it haes again been generally successful as an agricultural centre for Bolivie.
In addition to the Blues, Kelly broadcast NHL games on national television in the United States and Canada for a number of years. He broadcast 16 Stanley Cup Finals between 1969 and 1988, working for CBS, the NHL Network, the USA Network, CBC, CTV, and Global. He was also the lead play-by-play announcer of the 1987 Canada Cup, and also the lead play-by-play hockey announcer for CTV at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary.
Wales and Sanger attribute the concept of using a wiki to Ward Cunningham's WikiWikiWeb or Portland Pattern Repository.Àtụ:Citation needed Although Wales is credited with defining the goal of making a publicly-editable encyclopedia, Sanger is usually credited with the strategy of using a wiki to reach that goal.
In a 2006 Multiscope research study, the Dutch Wikipedia was rated the third best Dutch language site, after Google and Gmail, with a score of 8.1. On 26 Jenụwarị 2007, Wikipedia was also awarded the fourth highest brand ranking by the readers of brandchannel.com, receiving 15% of the votes in answer to the question "Which brand had the most impact on our lives in 2006?" Founder Jimmy Wales was named one of the 100 most influential people in the world by TIME Magazine in 2006. In 2006, the Russian Wikipedia won the "Science and education" category of the "Runet Prize" (Russian: Премия Рунета) award, supervised by the Russian government agency FAPMC.
Lemoiz (Lemóniz is the auld Spaingie name) is a toun an municipality locatit in the province o Biscay, in the autonomous commonty o Basque Kintra, northren Spain. It haes a population o aboot 1000.
1592: Daphnaïda. An Elegy upon the Death of the Noble and Vertuous Douglas Howard, Daughter and Heire of Henry Lord Howard, Viscount Byndon, and Wife of Arthure Gorges Esquier
The Olympics saw Afghanistan's first return to the Games since 1999 (it was banned due to the Taliban's extremist attitudes towards women, but was reinstated in 2002).
Mellor, J. W., A Comprehensive Treatise on Inorganic and Theoretical Chemistry, Volume III, pp157-168. Longmans, Green & Co., London, 1967 (new impression).
Heath, M.F. & Evans, M.I. (eds) (2000). Important Bird Areas in Europe: Priority sites for conservation. 1: Northern Europe. Cambridge, UK: BirdLife International (Birdlife Conservation Series No. 8.): 485-486
Go na le mehuta ya thulaganyo, a a akaretsang corporations, governments, non-governmental organizations, political organizations, international organizations, armed forces, charities, not-for-profit corporations, partnerships, cooperatives, and educational institutions.
Thompson, Chad (1994) The Languages of the Amish of Allen County, Indiana: Multilingualism and Convergence, Anthropological Linguistics, p. 69-91.
Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.
Friedland, William H. and Amy Barton (1975) Destalking the Wily Tomato: A Case Study of Social Consequences in California Agricultural Research. Univ. California at Sta. Cruz, Research Monograph 15.
Kudoma (1. Call a list of names, 2. Speak relevantly, 3. Start eating before others). Zvichida zita rokuti Kadoma rakabva pamunhu aivambwa kudya vamwe vasati vavepo?
On January 28, 2001, CBS Sports, Core Digital, and Princeton Video Image introduced state-of-the-art, three-dimensional replay technology called "EyeVision" for its coverage of Super Bowl XXXV in Tampa. In CBS Sports' first Super Bowl broadcast since 1992, it drew 131.2 million viewers for the Baltimore Ravens win over the New York Giants. Super Bowl XXXV was thus the most watched television program of the year. Play-by-play announcer Greg Gumbel became the first African-American announcer to call a major sports championship. He was joined in the broadcast booth with Phil Simms.
Use the talk pages on meta, talk to your local communities, talk to others, talk to us, and add your feedback to the proposed messages as well! I look forward to working with you during this year's fundraiser. If someone could translate this message I would really appreciate it so that everyone is able to understand our goals and contribute to this year's campaign.Klyman 21 d'Octobe 2010 à 19:03 (UTC)
Swift, C.J. (1987). Irish influence on ecclesiastical settlements in Scotland. A case study of the Island of Islay (Traaghtys MPhil neuhoilshit) (Baarle), University of Durham.
In 2008, neither Albert nor Esiason was available on championship weekend, so Dave Sims and Bob Trumpy moved to the AFC Championship Game in New England while Bill Rosinski took Albert's place alongside Jim Fassel for the NFC Championship Game in Green Bay. For 2009, Albert returned to the booth for Championship Sunday, calling the NFC Championship Game alongside Fassel with Dave Sims and Dennis Green responsible for the AFC Championship Game. The 2010 Conference Championship Games saw Kevin Harlan and Warren Moon call the AFC Championship Game while Sims and James Lofton called the NFC championship Game.
The Monday Night Football pregame and halftime shows are conducted differently from usual pregames, as there is no other game action to recap. Jim Gray presides over both the pregame and halftime shows, which are more feature driven and often feature guest commentators such as Tom Brady and Larry Fitzgerald, who contributes to the pregame show weekly with predictions and commentary. In addition to the Monday night games, Gray also hosts the studio shows for the Thursday opening game and the Super Bowl.
Hao, Chang. 1980. Intellectual change and the reform movement, 1890-1898. In The Cambridge History of China 11, Late Ch’ing, 1800–1911, Part 2, ed. Denis Twitchett et John K. Fairbanks, 274–338. Cantabrigiae: Cambridge University Press.
Charlie Bassett was Wyatt's boss in Dodge City. The film portrays the relationship as the other way around. Bassett and Wyatt Earp were nearly the same age. The film portrays Bassett as a younger man compared to Wyatt.
Illinois 72 is called Higgins Road for most of its length in the Chicago area, and has been redirected in parts of the area to accommodate for new features. Near Rosemont, the road has been shifted to make way for O'Hare International Airport — further east, parts of the road have been moved to make room for the Northwest Tollway (Interstate 90). The road serves as a major six-lane thoroughfare for several western suburbs, including Schaumburg, Elk Grove Village, and Hoffman Estates.
Korean Anarchism History from the Anarchy Archives. Transcript of a talk given by Alan MacSimoin to the Workers Solidarity Movement in 1991.
Tulip Fever ek 2016 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK, USA mein Justin Chadwick ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Alicia Vikander, Cara Delevingne, Jack O'Connell, Holliday Grainger acting kiye the.
Goldblatt, P. & David J. Mabberley. Belamcanda Included in Iris, and the New Combination I. domestica (Iridaceae: Irideae). Novon 15 (1), pp. 128–132, (2005).
The small-frame Lightning (also referred to as "Second Model Colt Lightning") was the first rimfire rifle made by Colt and was manufactured between 1887 and 1904 as a plinking and gallery gun. Colt records indicate 89,912 were made, in .22 Short and .22 Long. Barrel length was 24 in (61 cm) and the rifles had a blued finish, case-hardened hammer, and a walnut stock.
Wikipedia won two major awards in Mee 2004. The first was a Golden Nica for Digital Communities of the annual Prix Ars Electronica contest; this came with a €10,000 (£6,588; $12,700) grant and an invitation to present at the PAE Cyberarts Festival in Austria later that year. The second was a Judges' Webby Award for the "community" category. Wikipedia was also nominated for a "Best Practices" Webby. In Septemba 2004, the Japanese Wikipedia was awarded a Web Creation Award from the Japan Advertisers Association. This award, normally given to individuals for great contributions to the Web in Japanese, was accepted by a long-standing contributor on behalf of the project.
Kursk is an upcoming English-language French-Belgian drama film directed by Thomas Vinterberg based on Robert Moore’s book A Time to Die, about the true story of the 2000 Kursk submarine disaster. It stars Matthias Schoenaerts, Colin Firth, Léa Seydoux, Peter Simonischek, Max von Sydow, Matthias Schweighöfer and Michael Nyqvist (in his final film role).
Mauricie admeenistrative region wis creatit on 20 August 1997 frae the split o Mauricie–Bois-Francs admeenistrative region intae Mauricie an Centre-du-Québec. Housomeivver, the concept o Mauricie as a traditional region lang predates this.
Quillota is a ceety locatit in the Aconcagua River valley o central Chile's Valparaíso Region. It is the caipital an lairgest ceety o the Quillota Province whaur mony inhabitants live in the surroondin ferm auries o San Isidro, La Palma, Pocochay, an San Pedro. It is a important agricultural centre, mainly acause the plantations o avocado an cherimoya (custard apple) trees.
The Descendants ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Alexander Payne ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein George Clooney, Shailene Woodley, Amara Miller, Nick Krause acting kiye the.
The sexual cycle is quite different in other mammals, whose females are only receptive during their 'heat', which triggers the release of eggs from the ovary. Sexual activity then continues for a few days, then ceases entirely until the next heat.
In the mid-1970s the school district was sued for teaching Transcendental Meditation and its Science of Creative Intelligence course for credit. The U.S. District Court ruled in the case called, Malnak v. Yogi (1979), that TM was "religious in nature" and that its use in public schools was in violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution which requires "separation of church and state."
Ejaculation has two phases: emission and ejaculation proper. The emission phase of the ejaculatory reflex is under control of the sympathetic nervous system, while the ejaculatory phase is under control of a spinal reflex at the level of the spinal nerves S2–4 via the pudendal nerve. A refractory period succeeds the ejaculation, and sexual stimulation precedes it.
Buzzy Hellring (d. 1971, class of 1970), key developer of Ultimate who was killed in an auto accident his freshman year at Princeton University.
Ekonomou, Andrew J. 2007. Byzantine Rome and the Greek Popes: Eastern influences on Rome and the papacy from Gregory the Great to Zacharias, A.D. 590–752. Lexington Books.
Marilyn Carlson Nelson (born 19 August 1939) is an American businesswoman, the co-owner of Carlson, a hotel and travel company, and its former chairman and CEO.
The veelage o Shoksha near Petrozavodsk contains a quarry o red an pink quartzite which wis uised in construction o Saunt Isaac's Cathedral an Lenin Mausoleum, amang mony ither notable structurs. Thare are ither quarries in the region an aw excavatin road aggregates (Goloday Gora – gabbro-diabase) near Derevyanka.
For the 2012 NFL season, CBS has added Spanish play-by-play commentary of all games to the secondary audio program channel. Also in 2012, to further prevent issues surrounding late games from delaying primetime programming on the east coast (also influenced by other recent changes slowing the pace of games, such as video reviews and the kickoff for late games being moved from 4:15 to 4:25 p.m. ET), CBS officially moved the start of primetime to 7:30 p.m. whenever it carries a 4:25 p.m. game.
The GFDL requires the ability to "copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially" and therefore is incompatible with material that excludes commercial re-use. Material that restricts commercial re-use is incompatible with the license and cannot be incorporated into the work. However, incorporating such restricted material may be fair use under United States copyright law and does not need to be licensed to fall within the GFDL if such fair use is covered by all potential subsequent uses. One example of such liberal and commercial fair use is parody.
Itsindangishwanama, now referred to as the MAG (Itsindangishwanama rigizwe n'abantu b'ingeri zinyuranye bashishikajwe n'iki kibazo) was set up by the former Umunyamabanga Mukuru of the United Nations, Mr Kofi Annan on Gicurasi 17, 2006. The MAG was originally made up of 46 Members from international governments, the commercial private sector and public civil society, including academic and technical communities, and was chaired by Nitin Desai, the Secretary-General’s Special Adviser for the World Summit on the Information Society. All stakeholders participate as equals. The purpose for which the MAG was set up was to assist the Umunyamabanga Mukuru in convening the Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti. On August 20, 2007 the mandate of the MAG was renewed with a new structure of 47 members, and a Co-Chairmanship by Nitin Desai, and Burezili (Brazil)ian diplomat Hadil da Rocha Vianna.The mandate of the MAG was further extended in Mata 30, 2008 with a renewed one third of its members within each stakeholder group and Nitin Desai serving as the sole Chairman. MAG iterana inshuro eshatu buri mwaka - muri Gashyantare, Gicurasi no muri Nzeri. All three meetings take place in Jeneve kuri Paledenasiyo (Palais des Nations) and they are preceded by open consultations meeting.
One of the often cited reasons for the CFL South Division's failure, and part of the reason why the Canadian Football League fell behind the NFL in terms of quality players, was the state of the league's American television contract. The league, which had held a U.S. network TV contract in the 1950s and again briefly in 1982, was then being carried on ESPN2, at the time a nascent channel devoted to extreme sports that was not nearly as widely available as its parent network and only carried a limited number of the league's games (with ESPN itself airing some games to fill in airtime available due to the 1994 Major League Baseball strike, as well as the Grey Cup on tape delay). It was not until after the 1995 season that the CFL, mainly through the action of its American franchises, began negotiating with CBS Sports (at the time the only network among the Big Four that did not have rights to NFL broadcasts) to see if they could get coverage. However, the negotiations came too late to change the CFL's decision to fold or relocate all of its American franchises, and the negotiations with CBS accordingly fell through. It would not be until several years later that the CFL got a TV contract in the United States, on a much smaller network (America One). Then in 1996, CBS added college football games featuring the Southeastern and Big East conferences on Saturday afternoons. It was the beginning of a rebuilding process that would eventually lead to the return of the NFL to the network.
Haines - Halfway - Halsey - Hamilton - Hamlet - Hammond* - Hampton - Happy Valley - Harbor - Hardman - Harlan - Harper - Harrisburg - Hebo - Helix - Helvetia - Heppner - Hereford - Hermiston - Hillsboro - Hines - Holdman - Holland - Holley - Homestead - Hood River - Hopewell - Horton - Hoskins - Hot Lake - Hubbard - Huntington
Thoisich meatailt bàis aig toiseach na 1980an, a' tighinn bho meatailt slaic. Am measg nan comhlanan cudthromach anns an stoighle seo tha Autopsy, Cannibal Corpse, Carcass, Dismember, Death, Deicide, Entombed, Possessed agus Obituary.
Her first lawyer, Terence Hallinan, had advised Hearst not to talk to anyone, including psychiatrists. He advocated a defense of involuntary intoxication: that the SLA had given her drugs that affected her judgment and recollection. Her new lawyer, F. Lee Bailey, asserted a defense of coercion or duress affecting intent at the time of the offense—the so-called "Stockholm syndrome"—this was similar to the brainwashing-type excuse that Hallinan had warned was not a defense in law. Hearst gave long interviews to various psychiatrists.
Westwood One, in addition to its game coverage and highlight show on Sundays, Mondays, and Thursdays, offers to affiliate stations four different NFL-related programs during the season leading up to the Super Bowl. The first to premiere is Fantasy Football Forecast, an hour-long weekly program hosted by Kevin Kugler and James Lofton regarding fantasy leagues. This program premieres in late August and runs until the final week of the season.
This is still an ongoing issue for the University, since it is one of the very few tertiary institutions left in South Africa offering tuition in Afrikaans, as well as the very high regard it is held in the Afrikaner community, with the university being considered a central pillar of Afrikaner life. Most other institutions have always been English or have changed over to an English-only policy.
Ke Chung Kim and Herbert W. Ludwig. The family classification of the Anoplura. Systematic Entomology, Volume 3, Issue 3, July 1978: 249-284.
However, application of a Creative Commons license may not modify the rights allowed by fair use or fair dealing or exert restrictions which violate copyright exceptions. Furthermore, Creative Commons Licenses are non-exclusive and non-revocable. Any work or copies of the work obtained under a Creative Commons license may continue to be used under that license.
Y chied caghlaa da’n Comics Code Authority ayns 1971, kyndagh rish Stan Lee shassoo noi y choad son skeeal mychione druggaghyn, as shen er aghin enmyssit y Rheynn Lheeys, Ynsee as Lhiass ny Steaytyn Unnaneysit.
A soond caird (an aa kent as an audio caird) is an internal computer expansion card that facilitates the input an ootput o audio signals tae an frae a computer unner control o computer programs.
The Wikimedia Foundation recently created a new feature, "superprotect" status. The purpose is to prevent pages from being edited by elected administrators -- but permitting WMF staff to edit them. It has been put to use in only one case: to protect the deployment of the Media Viewer software on German Wikipedia, in defiance of a clear decision of that community to disable the feature by default, unless users decide to enable it.
wind-powered desalinization plant in Perth, Australia, is an example of how technology is insulating rich countries from impacts of climate change, while poor countries remain particularly vulnerable.
The reason for this scheduling dilemma was the fact that the NBA had opted to start the regular season earlier. Starting in the mid-1970s, the NBA had pushed back the start of the regular season, resulting in it ending increasingly later (for example, April 6 in 1975, April 11 in 1976). Prior to that, the regular season had always ended in late March. For the 1979–1980 and 1980–1981 seasons, the NBA reverted to the earlier practice, with the season ending respectively on March 30, 1980 and March 29, 1981 (both falling on a Sunday). That meant that the Finals in those years began in the first week of May rather than the end of May, and as a result, the weeknight games were played during May ratings sweeps. Consequently, weeknight games held on the West Coast started at 8:30 p.m. Pacific Time, which was 11:30 p.m. in the Eastern Time Zone; those games could be shown live. However, non-West Coast weeknight games required tape-delay, to be shown at 11:30 p.m.
Turner, Victor W., et Edith Turner. 1978. Image and Pilgrimage in Christian Culture Anthropological Perspectives. Novi Eboraci: Columbia University Press.
Voulzy haed a huge hit wi his album La Septième Vague which reached nummer ane. Featured on the album is a cover o the Everly Brothers hit "All I Have to Do Is Dream", recordit as a duet wi Erse sangster Andrea Corr. The sang wis released as a single an wis includit on The Corrs' greatest hits album Dreams: The Ultimate Corrs Collection an aw.
Collision with the Future: Deconstructing the Hunter Killer Attack ek 2009 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein N/A ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Thomas Dekker, Josh Friedman, Steve Galich, Lena Headey acting kiye the.
The pin tumbler lock uses a set of pins to prevent the lock from opening unless the correct key is inserted. The key has a series of grooves on either side of the key's blade that limit the type of lock the key can slide into. As the key slides into the lock, the horizontal grooves on the blade align with the wards in the keyway allowing or denying entry to the cylinder. A series of pointed teeth and notches on the blade, called bittings, then allow pins to move up and down until they are in line with the shear line of the inner and outer cylinder, allowing the cylinder or cam to rotate freely and the lock to open.
In reaction to growing dissent, the Portuguese government in Goa implemented polices which curtailed civil liberties, including censorship of the press. Strict censorship policies required any material containing printed words, including invitation cards, to be submitted to a censorship committee for screening. The Portuguese governor of Goa was empowered to suspend publication, close down printing presses and impose heavy fines on newspapers which refused to comply with these policies. Many Goans criticised the curtailing of press freedoms, stating that the only newspapers and periodicals the Portuguese permitted them to publish were pro-colonialist propaganda materials.
Plas Aberllefenni (also known as "Y Plas") was a mediaeval manor house, but the older section was demolished in the 1960s and only a later wing is still standing.
According to the Records of the Grand Historian, after the collapse of the Qin dynasty the hegemon Xiang Yu appointed Liu Bang as prince of the small fief of Hanzhong, named after its location on the Han River (in modern southwest Shaanxi). Following Liu Bang's victory in the Chu–Han Contention, the resulting Han dynasty was named after the Hanzhong fief.
The Board of Education initially responded by constructing a sizable addition to the old Columbia School in 1910, which building still housed primary school children as well as high school students. Seth Boyden School and the old Fielding School were erected in 1913 and 1914, respectively. By the fall of 1922 Marshall School was completed. First Street School followed the next spring, and Jefferson School opened in January 1924. Later that year the junior high schools were organized, and both the Tuscan and Montrose buildings were finished.
Adansonia digitata in Brunken, U., Schmidt, M., Dressler, S., Janssen, T., Thiombiano, A. & Zizka, G. 2008. West African plants - A Photo Guide. www.westafricanplants.senckenberg.de.
The F-FDTL has an authorised strength of 1,500 regular personnel and 1,500 reservists. It has never reached these totals as funding shortfalls have prevented the reserve component from being formed and the Army's two regular battalions have remained under-strength. While all the F-FDTL's personnel were initially FALINTIL veterans the force's composition has changed over time and few soldiers from the insurgency remain due to the force's narrow age requirement. After the F-FDTL's 1st Battalion was established in 2001 recruitment was opened to all East Timorese above the age of 18, including women. Few women have joined the F-FDTL, however, and as at February 2010 only seven percent of new recruits were female.
Humburiro kana ndedzekero (Supplementary vessel containing what will be added to a larger vessel when it has ceased to be carried) apa kureva mudziyo mudiki unoshandiswa kutakura zviro zvichazodirwa mune mumwe mudziyo muhombe.
The Araneomorphae (an aa cried the Labidognatha) are a suborder o speeders. Thay are distinguished bi havin fangs that oppose each ither an cross in a pinchin action, in contrast tae the Mygalomorphae (tarantulas an thair close kin), which hae fangs that are nearly parallel in alignment.
Share da amm aase feayr as liauyr, mysh queig meeghyn, agh cha nod eh shassoo noi rio. Ta feme echey er rheamys mooar, as myr shen cha nel eh goll er troarey monney agh raad ta aggyrtys ynnydagh er.
1605 - The controversial play Eastward Ho! by Ben Jonson, George Chapman, and John Marston is performed, landing two of the authors in prison.
Vaux, Bert and Zihni Psiypa (1997) The Cwyzhy Dialect of Abkhaz. Harvard Working Papers in Linguistics 6, Susumu Kuno, Bert Vaux, and Steve Peter, eds. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Linguistics Department.
“God is Light” – 1 Jn 1:5. The true light comes from God. Jesus is the light of the world, and anyone who follows him, will not walk in darkness but will have the light of life. So follow Jesus.
The NFL on Westwood One originally was not available on the NFL Audio Pass (formerly Field Pass) subscription Internet radio service, though the network's prime time and playoff broadcasts became available beginning in the 2009 NFL season as a result of a new broadcast contract. All prime time and playoff broadcasts are carried on Sirius Satellite Radio, and are also available to XM Satellite Radio subscribers with a "Best of Sirius" package. While games cannot be streamed on internet radio by affiliates (per NFL rules), several stations break this rule. Due to this, Westwood One broadcast can be heard on other devices (e.g. iOS devices via TuneIn and Xbox 360 consoles via iHeartRadio).
03.11 - 04.11 - 05.11 - 06.11 - 07.11 - 08.11 - 09.11 - 10.11 - 11.11 - 12.11 - 13.11 - 14.11 - 15.11 - 16.11 - 17.11 - 18.11 - 19.11 - 20.11 - 21.11 - 22.11 - 23.11
Watson, Thomas J. (1934) [1930]. Men—Minutes—Money: A Collection of Excerpts from Talks and Messages Delivered and Written at Various Times. IBM. OCLC 391485
Lancaster County is en County in Pennsylvania. Feel amisha un mennonite leit voona in Lancaster County. Di shtadt funn Lancaster is di graysht shtadt in da County. Di amisha gmayshaft in Lancaster County is di eldsht amisha gmayshaft es noch room is in di Shtayts un in da velt.
You can also use this as a TSN reference only by leaving out the taxon name; you may choose this format when you're using this template on second reference or when the taxon is clear from context. For example:
She çhengey Cheltiagh va goll er loayrt ayns Galatia 'syn Aishey Veg (y Turkee noa-emshiragh) ee Galatish. V'ee loayrit veih'n 3-oo eash RC derrey'n 4-oo eash BNJ. T'ee ny çhengey Cheltiagh vooarheeragh gollrish y Ghoalish.
Edith Kibalama ni Umuyobozi wa Porogaramu muri Kituo Cha Katiba. Ni Umunyamatageko wo mu rwego rwo hejuru ubizobereyemo akaba afite LL.B na LL.M yakuye muri Kaminuza ya Makerere, Kampala, Uganda. Yakoze ubushakashatsi anagira uruhare mu bintu by’itegekanshinga n’uburenganzira bw’ikiremwamuntu muri Uganda no mu karere ka Afurika y’Iburasirazuba. Ibitabo yanditse zirimo “Opening up into a Cul-de-Sac: The State of Constitutionalism in Uganda in 2002,” in JJUUKO, Frederick (ed.), Constitutionalism in East Africa: Progress, Challenges and Prospects in 2002, Kampala: Fountain Publishers and Kituo Cha Katiba, 2005; and “Affirmative Action and the Status of Women in Uganda,” Volume 6 No. 1 East African Journal of Peace and Human Rights (HURIPEC – Makerere University Kampala, Uganda).
All the discovered alkaline earth metals occur in nature. Experiments have been conducted to attempt the synthesis of element 120, the next potential member of the group, but they have all met with failure.
Most of the the traditional mandos, which gained the term “classical”, were composed in the 19th century. The polka and the valsavina (Vienna Waltz) with its three-four rhythm seem to have found their way to Goa. The mando was originally composed and danced by the Brahmin aristocracy of Goa, mainly of Salcete, whose spacious mansions had a big hall for festive occasions. A memorable moment in the history of the family was the bridal mando. The mando reflects the tranquil and leisurely character of this aristocracy. The Goan woman in the mando reflects the ideals and virtues then ascribed to her, namely self-sacrifice, piety and motherhood.
Governments have widely varying policies and practices towards journalists, which control what they can research and write, and what press organizations can publish. Some governments guarantee the freedom of the press; while other nations severely restrict what journalists can research and/or publish.
Wosa an penn-hyns-horn dhe ygeri dhe Bere Alston yn Dewnens, linen-junya a ygeris a-dhyworth ena dhe Galstok ha'n hyns-horn a eksistyas veu treylyes dhe geyj savonek. An hyns-horn nowyth a ygeris avel linen-trethysi yn 1908. Ha hensi-horn powek ow pos deges y'n 1960ow, rann a'n Hyns-horn Moon Kernow Est veu gwithys rag gwitha junyans ynter Aberplymm ha Dowrgonna. Ygerys yw an rann na y'n jydh hedhyw hwath.
While mony poleetical parties are active, pouer lies firmly in the haunds o Preses Déby an his poleetical pairty, thei Patriotic Salvation Movement. Chad remains plagued bi poleetical veeolence an recurrent attemptit coups d'état.
Imicungire n'Imiyoborere ya Interineti: Ibigomba gukorwa. An international conference organised by DiploFoundation discusses the objectives, multi-stakeholder composition, organisation and relevance of Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30
This bot will be making anywheres between 4 and 12 edits per minute. If you require any test edits or if you grant or deny the flag, please contact me on my talk page over on Simple English Wikipedia: simple:User talk:Razorflame. Darkicebot has the global bot flag. Darkicebot 01:22, 3 марта 2009 (UTC)
www.petit-prince-collection.com Website dedicated to the worldwide largest book collection of The Little Prince (more than 3000 different editions in over 260 different languages and dialects)
The need for this kynd o caur, an its functional objectives, wur formulatit bi Adolf Hitler, leader o Nazi Germany, wishin for a cheap, simple caur tae be mass-produced for the new road netwirk o his kintra. He contractit Porsche in 1934 tae design an build it tae his exactin staundarts. Ferdinand Porsche an his team teuk till 1938 tae feenalise the design. This is ane o the first rear-ingined caurs. Wi ower 21 million manufactured (21,529,464) in a air-ceuled, rear-ingined, rear-wheel drive configuration, the Beetle is the langest-runnin an maist-manufactured caur o a single design platform, warldwide.
The Common Tailorbird is a brightly coloured bird, with bright green upperparts and whitish underparts. They range in size from and weigh . They have short rounded wings, a long tail, strong legs and a sharp bill with curved tip to the upper mandible. They are wren-like with a long upright tail that is often moved around. The crown is rufous and the upperparts are predominantly olive green. The underside is creamy white. The sexes are identical, except that the male has long central tail feathers in the breeding season, although the reliability of sexing data accompanying museum specimens used in determining this sexual dimorphism has been questioned. Young birds are duller. When calling, the dark patches on the sides of the neck become visible. These are due to the dark pigmented and bare skin that are present in both sexes and sometimes give the appearance of a dark gorget.
neon is a chemical element with symbol Ne.Inoble gase.Neon icolorless , tasteless gas.gasi iri rakadescover muna 1898 pamwe chete nekrypton ende obva azivikanwa kuti manobles gases uye marare earth inert gases.neon inobaka uye inoshandiswa semadvertise gases
The ballpoint pen drawing 'Inhuman Pyramid' is two meters tall, one and a half meters wide, used up six ballpoint pens and took seven months to complete.
A visa (frae the Laitin charta visa, meaning"paper which haes been seen") is a condeetional authorisation grantit bi a kintra tae a foreigner, allaein them tae enter an temporarily remain within, or tae leave that kintra. Visas teepically include leemits on the duration o the foreigner's stay, territory within the kintra thay mey enter, the dates thay mey enter, the nummer o permittit veesits or an individual's richt tae wark in the kintra in quaistien.
Gob gu earball, bith iad eadar 35 's 50 cm de dh'fhaide agus bith leud a sgiathan eadar 80 's 120 cm. Thèid cuideam nam fireannach eadar 440 's 750 g agus cuideam nam boireannach eadar 910 's 1500 g.
A mysterious, shy girl whose late father conducted scientific work on nanotechnology connected to the origins of the WORMs. She has shown limited 'remote control' of the WORMs (episode 20). Near the end of the series she becomes the fifth Sky Girl, and pilots the Sonic Diver Shunya.
(en) Paracelsus and the medical revolution of the Renaissance - A 500th Anniversary Celebration from the National Library of Medicine, theme essay by Allen G. Debus.
Wanapat, M. and P. Rowlinson. 2007. Nutrition and feeding of swamp buffalo: Feed resources and rumen approach. Paper to be presented at the VIII World Buffalo Congress, 19–22 October 2007, Caserta, Italy, organized by The International Buffalo Federation.
The United Arab Republic (Lárúbáwá: الجمهورية العربية المتحدة‎ Arabic pronunciation Al-Jumhuriyah al-Arabiyah al-Muttahidah, international Arabic pronunciation Al-Jumhuriyah al-Arabiyah al-Muttahidah), often abbreviated as the U.A.R., was a union between Egypt and Syria. The union began in 1958 and existed until 1961 when Syria seceded from the union. Egypt continued to be known officially as the "United Arab Republic" until 1971. The President was Gamal Abdel Nasser. During most of its existence (1958-1961) it was a member of the United Arab States, a confederation with North Yemen.
Beginning in 2007, Westwood One has employed a series of substitute analysts for Monday Night Football. This was a change necessitated by the premiere of Boomer and Carton in the Morning on the network's flagship station WFAN, which saw Esiason and Craig Carton take over the station's morning show following Don Imus' firing. This requires Esiason to be in New York every morning during the week, and since the Monday night game ends after 11:00 pm Eastern and his show begins at 6:00 am, and although he employs his own private jet to get him to and from games, this does not allow for Esiason to travel considerable distances as he cannot make it back in time.
PAWLEY, Andrew 1966. “Polynesian Languages: A Subgrouping Based on Shared Innovations in Morphology.” Journal of the Polynesian Society, 75:39-64.
Even more meaningful was the opinion expressed by an American Constitutional authority, Granville Austin, who wrote that what the Indian Constituent Assembly began was ‘perhaps the greatest political venture since that originated in Philadelphia in 1787.’
1966 - Robert C. Weaver becomes the first African American Cabinet member by being appointed United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
In 2008 the total number of full-time equivalent jobs was 913. The number of jobs in the primary sector was 160, of which 152 were in agriculture and 8 were in forestry or lumber production. The number of jobs in the secondary sector was 196 of which 81 or (41.3%) were in manufacturing, 2 or (1.0%) were in mining and 113 (57.7%) were in construction. The number of jobs in the tertiary sector was 557. In the tertiary sector; 97 or 17.4% were in wholesale or retail sales or the repair of motor vehicles, 25 or 4.5% were in the movement and storage of goods, 250 or 44.9% were in a hotel or restaurant, 11 or 2.0% were the insurance or financial industry, 17 or 3.1% were technical professionals or scientists, 40 or 7.2% were in education and 3 or 0.5% were in health care.
—. The Elementary Part Of a Treatise on the Dynamics of a System of Rigid Bodies: Being Part I of a Treatise on the Whole Subject. With Numerous Examples.
Pribbenow, Merle, Trans.' Victory in Vietnam: A History of the People's Army of Vietnam, 1954-1975. Military History Institute of Vietnam. Lawrence, KS: University of Kansas Press, 2002.
Refugee Stories—Listen to People's Experiences The site of the Refugee Communities History Project is full of oral history in mp3 format. The project won the 2006 Charity Award for arts, culture and heritage in the UK.
Well-known people from Bungeni include David Mathebula,Lebo Manyama from Njhakanjhaka (Xavunyami), footballers in the South African Professional Soccer League. Jacob Tshisevhe, a former Kaizer Chief defender, was born at Njhakanjhaka Village (The Tshisevhe family still resides in the village). Another notable individual is Falaza Mdaka, who is the Chief Whip of the African National Congress in the Limpopo Legislature. Robert Nkuna who is the former Advisor to the Minister of Transport. Tiyani Rikhotso is a spokesperson in the Department of Transport. Chicco Twala (His Parents were born at Mabodlongwa village, the Twala family still reside in the village), Judge George Maluleke, North Gauteng High Court (He himself was born at Mtsetweni village in 1945). Dr Risimati Dazmen Mavunda. Son of Jack, son of Vuromo (Abraham), son of Phalani the sibling of Bungeni. Dazmen was the first black person to qualify in Nuclear Medicine in South Africa. He is now practicing as a chief Physicist at Nuclear Energy Corporation of South Africa (NECSA). And is lecturing at University of Johannesburg, Tshwane University of Technology and Venda University.He obtained his primary education at Rivoningo Primary and his parents's home is still at Ribungwani.
Mercury Flyby 1 Visualization Tool and Mercury Flyby 1 Actuals – comparison between simulated views of Mercury to the images actually acquired by MESSENGER during flyby 1
Dragtenstein, Frank, 2002. ‘De ondraaglijke stoutheid der wegloopers’: Marronage en koloniaal beleid in Suriname, 1667-1768. PhD Diss., University of Utrecht. Institute for Cultural Anthropology, University of Utrecht.
George 6k (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions from 11 December 1936 until his death. He was the last Emperor of India (until 22 June 1948), the last King of Ireland (until 18 April 1949), and the first Head of the Commonwealth.
Subtracting a "1" digit from a "0" digit produces the digit "1", while 1 will have to be subtracted from the next column. Ini dikenali sebagai peminjaman. The principle is the same as for carrying. When the hasil of a subtraction is less than 0, the least possible value of a digit, the procedure is to "borrow" the deficit divided by the radix (that is, 10/10) from the left, subtracting it from the next positional value.
G. Stone: Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, s. 341
Note on spider silk strength: The strength of spider silk is highly variable. It depends on many factors including type of silk (every spider can produce several different types for different purposes), the particular species, the age of the silk, the temperature, the humidity, the rate at which stress is applied during testing, the length of time the stress is applied and the way the silk is collected (forced silking or natural spinning). The value shown in the table, 1000 MPa, is roughly representative of the results from a few studies involving several different species of spider however specific results varied greatly.
Minnesota's first attempt to create a state park came in 1885, when a 173-acre (70 ha) park was authorized to preserve Minnehaha Falls. The effort was delayed by legal appeals from the various landowners of the desired parkland, and by the time those were settled in favor of the state in 1889, Minnesota no longer had the money to purchase the land. Instead the city of Minneapolis fronted the cash. Owned and operated by Minneapolis, Minnehaha State Park was ultimately absorbed as a city park.
M. Prasad, Sixty Years of Soccer in Fiji 1938 – 1998: The Official History of the Fiji Football Association, Fiji Football Association, Suva, 1998.
While Google is often thought of as the invention of two young computer whizzes—Sergey and Larry, Larry and Sergey—the truth is that Google is a creation of Larry Page, helped along by Sergey Brin.
Andrea Mantegna (Italian: [anˈdrɛːa manˈteɲɲa]; c. 1431 – September 13, 1506) wis an Italian penter, a student o Roman aircheology, an son-in-law o Jacopo Bellini. Like ither airtists o the time, Mantegna experimentit wi perspective, e.g., bi lawerin the horizon in order tae create a sense o greater monumentality. His flinty, metallic laundscapes an somewhit stany figurs gie evidence o a fundamentally sculptural approach tae pentin. He an aa led a wirkshap that wis the leadin producer o prents in Venice afore 1500.
Kubvekecha (1. Force one's way through a crowd; 2. Join oneself to a crowd. 3. Walk in sand making crunching sound). Sekuru vakabvekecha napakati pavanhu vachitsvaga muzukuru wavo.
In 2001, together with Larry Sanger and others, Wales helped launch Wikipedia, a free, open content encyclopedia which enjoyed rapid growth and popularity. As Wikipedia's public profile grew, Wales became the project's promoter and spokesman. Wales is historically cited as a co-founder of Wikipedia, though he has disputed the "co-" designation in declaring himself the sole founder. Wales serves on the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit charitable organization which operates Wikipedia. He holds its board-appointed "community founder" seat. In 2004, he co-founded Wikia, a privately owned, free Web-hosting service, with fellow Wikimedia trustee Angela Beesley.
Sapunar D et al. Distinct membrane effects of spinal nerve ligation on injured and adjacent dorsal root ganglion neurons. Anesthesiology 2005.
Holly – more specifically the European holly, Ilex aquifolium – is commonly referenced at Christmas time, and is often referred to by the name Christ's thorn. In many Western Christian cultures, holly is a traditional Christmas decoration, used especially in wreaths and illustrations, for instance on Christmas cards. Since medieval times the plant has carried a Christian symbolism, as expressed in the well-known Christian Christmas carol "The Holly and the Ivy", in which the holly represents Jesus and the ivy represents the Virgin Mary. Angie Mostellar discusses the Christian use of holly at Christmas, stating that:
An Mor Karib yw mor trovannel ow kul rann a'n Keynvor Iwerydh, soth-est a Gammas Meksiko. A-dro dhodho yma Amerika Dheghow, Amerika Gres, ha'n Antillys. Enep an mor yw a-dro 2,754,000 km².
Beltz, Johannes. 2003. “Bhima Bhoi: The making of a modern saint”, A. Copley (ed.) Hindu Nationalism and Religious Reform Movements, New Delhi: OUP, pp. 230–253.
At least 70 of Google's products, features and services were eventually shut down by March 2013, while the appearance and nature of the remaining ones were unified. Jon Wiley, lead designer of Google Search at the time, codenamed Page's redesign overhaul, which officially commenced on April 4, 2011, "Project Kennedy," based on Page's use of the term "moonshots" to describe ambitious projects in a January 2013 Wired interview. An initiative named "Kanna" previously attempted to create a uniform design aesthetic for Google's range of products, but it was too difficult at that point in the company's history for one team to drive such change. Matias Duarte, senior director of the Android user experience at the time that "Kennedy" started, explained in 2013 that "Google passionately cares about design." Page proceeded to consult with the Google Creative Lab design team, based in New York City, to find an answer to his question of what a "cohesive vision" of Google might look like.
Matev / Mathew 5 : 14 - Tumi sonvsaracho uzvadd. Dongrachea mathear bandlolem xar lipon urona. / You are the light of the world. A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden.
United Nations Treaty Registered No. 10760, Agreement relating to Malaysia between United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Federation of Malaya, North Borneo, Sarawak and Singapore
It wis chosen as the steid o the Lemoniz Nuclear Pouer Plant, but the construction wis left unfeenished efter ecologist opposition an ETA attacks.
Kazan (Roushie: Каза́нь; Tatar: Казан, Qazan) is the caipital ceety o the Republic o Tatarstan, Roushie. Wi a population o 1,105,000 (2002), it is the saxth lairgest ceety o Roushie. Kazan lies at the confluence o the Volga an Kazanka Rivers in European Roushie. In April 2009, the Roushie Patent Office grantit Kazan the richt tae brand itsel as the "Third Caipital" o Roushie. In 2009 it wis chosen as the "sports caipital o Roushie". The Kazan Kremlin is a Warld Heritage Steid.
Earlier pens leaked or clogged due to improper viscosity of the ink and depended on gravity to deliver the ink to the ball. Depending on gravity caused difficulties with the flow and required that the pen be held nearly vertically. The Biro pen both pressurized the ink column and used capillary action for ink delivery, solving the flow problems.
2 Korintkarank / 2 Corinthians 5 : 17 - Mhonnttôch, konn-ui Kristachea ekvottant asat tôr, tim êk novi rochnna; pornnem tem gelem, atam sogllench novem! / So whoever is in Christ is a new creation: the old things have passed away; behold, new things have come.
Most countries of the world have different names in different languages. Some countries have also undergone name changes for political or other reasons. This article attempts to give all known alternative names for all nations, countries and sovereign states. It does not offer any opinion about what the "original", "official", "real", or "correct" name of any country is or was.
She lus 'sy chynney Rosaceae eh cappan y druight (Alchemilla mollis). T'eh dooghyssagh da'n Oarpey yiass, as t'eh ry-akin er feie ny cruinney myr lus jesheenagh.
Hedges, S., Baral, H. S., Timmins, R. J., Duckworth, J. W. (2008). "Bubalus arnee". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Version 2012.2. International Union for Conservation of Nature.
Gifford was born in Santa Monica, California, the son of Lola Mae (née Hawkins) and Weldon Gifford, an oil driller. He graduated from Bakersfield High School. Following Gifford's death in 2015, his wife Kathie Lee Gifford said that her late husband grew up in a poverty-stricken home and that he and his family sometimes ate dog food. She said they lived in 29 places even before Gifford attended high school because his father could not find work during the Depression. She also said that as a young child, the family attended church every week and Gifford "asked Jesus into his heart and that remained with him for the rest of his life".
In December 2015, the News & Review, in partnership with Sacramento's local Habitat for Humanity, began a Build for Unity project, where Muslims, Christians, and other faith groups came together to build Habitat houses, in part as a response to the anti-Muslim rhetoric of national politics. The project was funded in large part by generous donations from a wide range of faith groups.
Crying Wolf ek 2015 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK mein Jason Rivers ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Richard Buck, Jenn Day, Megan Gibson, Amethyst Gostlow-Crosslet acting kiye the.
He was Commander of the Compagnie of Viggiano, Aosta and Genova Portoria . He worked at the Investigative Nucleus in Turin with significant commitments to countering terrorism and kidnapping.
Thoosans flock tae see the firewirks festival at Bukbu Beach each simmer. Fowk travel frae aw ower the kintra tae watch the show. The Cultur & Airts Centre, opened in 1995, haulds performances an exhibitions in its various galleries an theatres.
In addition to present-at-hand and ready-to-hand there is a third mode for Dasein, being-with, that is essential to Dasein. For example, a field that we may carefully walk around so as not to damage the crops or compact the soil, is ready-to-hand but shows itself also as belonging to someone and cared for by someone. We do not just add this person, "in thought," to the field we see because the farmer(s) already show themselves with the field through its improvements as the object of their care. Likewise, we may hear a scream, not as a noise or a sense-datum, but as someone in distress.
Howe, Daniel Walker. What Hath God Wrought: The Transformation of America, 1815–1848 (2007), Pulitzer Prize; a sweeping interpretation of the entire era
Harlan Luxenberg, Susan P. Limber, Dan Olweus, Assessed using data collected from the Olweus Bullying Questionnaire™, Hazelden Publishing, 2015
Price, Nigel (ed.). "Mosquito: A Celebration of de Havilland's 'Wooden Wonder'." FlyPast Special. Stamford, Lincolnshire, UK: Key Publishing Ltd., 2009.
Francisco Baltazar - known much more widely through his nom-de-plume Francisco Balagtas, was a prominent Filipino poet. The famous epic, Florante at Laura, is regarded as his defining work.
Moore, Jason W. 2000. "Environmental Crises and the Metabolic Rift in World-Historical Perspective," Organization and Environment 13, 123-158.
(EN) Hiki Sumik, Hiki Yoshiki: Professor von Mikulicz-Radecki, Breslau. 100 years since his death. Langenbecks Archives of Surgery 390 (2005), S. 182–185
Artemisa is a municipality an ceety in Cuba, umwhile pairt o La Habana Province. Accordin tae a law appruivit bi the Cuban Naitional Assembly in August 2010, Artemisa became the caipital ceety o the newly formit Artemisa Province, which comprises 8 municipalities o the umwhile La Habana Province an 3 frae Pinar del Río.
The beginnin o 20t century saw an ootbreak in ethnic tensions atween the Armenie an Azerbaijani populations in the Caucasus, culminatin in the Armenie-Tatar massacres. Clashes occurred in Nakhichevan an Sharur-Daralgez uyezdy o the Erevan gubernia an in Zangezur, Shusha an Javanshir uezdy o Elizavetpol gubernia in 1905. Accordin tae Armenie soorces 128 Armenie an 158 Azerbaijanian veelages wur "pillagit or destroyed" while the oweraw estimates o lifes lost vary widely, rangin frae 3,000 tae 10,000, wi Muslims sufferin heicher losses. Durin thir events, the Armenies o Syunik wur massacred "athoot distinction o sex or age" bi Azeri forces.
Only United Nations member states and observer states are included in this table. Anthems of sovereign states which are not UN members or observers are listed in a separate table below. An English translation of the title is provided in parentheses where appropriate.
By the late 1970s, student populations around the nation had entered what proved to be a period of extended numerical decline. The Board of Education organized a citizen Educational Task Force, which conducted a District-wide demographic study and ultimately recommended a series of school closings and consolidations. One of the results was the entry of the 9th grade into the high school in 1980. Declining enrollment, as well as cost considerations, led to the discontinuance of the House Plan in 1982.
.com.br/books?id=LiMbwG0pALkC&pg=PA93&lpg=PA93&dq=Scaphyglottis&source=bl&ots=lKWxlWLe23&sig=DwHErXcIQq6wWZCONmCN8F2HlnY&hl=t-BR&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnun=8&t=result#PPA90,M1 Field Guide to the Orchids of Cuosta Rica and Panama Por Robert L. Dressler
"Regiones Quattuordecim" in Samuel Ball Platner, A Topographical Dictionary of Ancient Rome (Londinii: Oxford University Press, 1929 ~ ~) pp. 444-447
Routh, E. J. (1877). Treatise on the Stability of a Given State of Motion. MacMillan. Reprinted in 'Stability of Motion' (ed. A.T.Fuller) London 1975 (Taylor & Francis).
A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. We have now enabled the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have already done this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr, bs, sr, sh) a month ago and two days ago on the English Wikipedia. Today all the remaining Wikipedias followed.
By 1978, NBC aired Saturday afternoon college basketball games, while CBS aired NBA doubleheaders on Sunday afternoons, and most independent stations aired local professional and college games. CBS started to fear that their ratings suffered as a result of too many basketball games being aired on television at once. As an experiment of sorts, the network decided to air the first two games of the Conference Finals at 11:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time.
.... kwaiyapo kuchema kukurutu pakati pevaJudha, kuera kudya, kutsumba nokuboorera:there was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting, weeping and wailing. (Esther 4:4 mBhaibheri reChiNdau).
Syunik is hame tae mony o Armenie's lairgest minin operations (at Kajaran, Kapan, Agarak) as well as the lairgest tailin dams (at Artzvanik, Voghtchi, Darazami, Geghanoush). The prospect o a uranium mine bein exploitit bi the Roushie State Nuclear Energy Corporation (Rosatom) in the veelage o Lernadzor haes environmentalists an locals concerned.
Pakistan launched Operation Grand Slam on 17 August 1965 in an effort to relieve infiltrators who had been surrounded after the failure of Operation Gibraltar on 15 August and to attempt to cut off the Indian supply lines. With supply lines under severe stress due to Operation Grand Slam, India launched an offensive towards Lahore to open up a second front in the war and distract Pakistani attention from Kashmir. After opening the Lahore front, Indian troops advanced towards Lahore along three axes—Amritsar-Lahore, Khalra-Burki- Lahore and Khem Karan-Kasur roads—overwhelming the small Pakistani force.
Efter Peter's daith, Petrovskaya Sloboda became depopulatedit an the factory declined. It closed doun in 1734, awtho foreign industrialists maintained copper factories in the vicinity.
Louise Tracy Freeman (born 5 January 1962), better known as Tracy Spencer, is a British Italo disco singer and actress. Born in London, she is best known for the song "Run to Me", which won the 1986 Festivalbar and was #1 on the Italian hit parade.
On his way to winning the FIDE World Chess Championship in 2000, Anand (White) defeated Grandmaster Viktor Bologan (Black). Here are the moves (analysis by Grandmaster Ľubomír Ftáčnik):
Mwari wakati, “Nyika ngaimere mwenje nemiriwo inobereka mbeu, miti inobereka michero: God said, “Let the earth put forth grass, seed-producing plants, and fruit trees... (Genesis 1:11 Bhaibheri reChiNdau).
A well-known type of old-fashioned house is the "half-timbered" house. These are seen in the British Isles, France, and across northern Europe and the Alps. These houses date mainly from about 1200 to about 1800.
The wastren bundary o the burgh, wi the Borough of Eastleigh, is the River Hamble. Tae the north is the City of Winchester; tae the east the City of Portsmouth, a unitary authority; an tae the sooth the Borough of Gosport. The sooth wast an sooth east edges o the burgh are baith pairt o the Breetish coastline, borderin the Solent.
The genus Ilex is widespread throughout the temperate and subtropical regions of the world. It includes species of trees, shrubs, and climbers, with evergreen or deciduous foliage and inconspicuous flowers. Its range was more extended in the Tertiary period and many species are adapted to laurel forest habitat. It occurs from sea level to more than 2,000 metres (6,600 ft) with high mountain species. It is a genus of small, evergreen trees with smooth, glabrous, or pubescent branchlets. The plants are generally slow-growing with some species growing to 25 m (82 ft) tall. The type species is the European holly Ilex aquifolium described by Linnaeus.
The December 1, 2013 game (Denver/Kansas City; Cincinnati/San Diego) drew a 16.7 household rating, a 29 share, and 28.106 million viewers from 4:25pm to 7:47pm.
Kennedy is a 1986 graduate of Southeastern Louisiana and 1984 graduate of Delgado Community College in New Orleans. He played basketball and attended Holy Cross High School in New Orleans.
For economic democracy to be feasible, three preconditions must be satisfied: Demotic self-reliance, demotic ownership of the means of production, and confederal allocation of resources.
Morgan Freeman (ojoibi June 1, 1937) je osere, oludari filmu ati asealayye ara Amerika. Freeman ti gba has received Academy Award nominations for his performances in Street Smart, Driving Miss Daisy, The Shawshank Redemption and Invictus and won in 2005 for Million Dollar Baby. He has also won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
Aue (German pronunciation: [ˈaʊ.ə]) is a sma toun in Germany at the ootlet o the river Schwarzwasser intae the river Mulde in the Ore Muntains, an haes roughly 18,000 inhabitants. Aue wis the admeenistrative seat o the umwhile destrict o Aue-Schwarzenberg in Saxony, an is pairt o the Erzgebirgskreis syne August 2008. It belangs tae the Silberberg Toun League (Städtebund Silberberg)
The film's setting proved to be a potential problem for Carpenter, who needed to create a decaying, semi-destroyed version of New York City on a shoe-string budget. He and the film's production designer Joe Alves rejected shooting on location in New York City because it would be too hard to make it look like a destroyed city. Carpenter suggested shooting on a movie back lot but Alves nixed that idea "because the texture of a real street is not like a back lot." They sent Barry Bernardi, their location manager (and associate producer), "on a sort of all-expense-paid trip across the country looking for the worst city in America," producer Debra Hill remembers.
The involvement of different stakeholders in the policy framework of Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti (IGF) is a re-affirmation of commitment as per paragraph 39 of the Tunis Commitment. In this particular context, there is a deep resolve to “…develop and implement an effective and sustainable response to the challenges and opportunities of building a truly global Information Society that benefits all our peoples.” During the OECD Civil Society-Organized Labour Urubuga held last Kamena 16, 2008, in Seoul, Korea, Ambassador David A. Gross of the US Department of State talked about the transformation of the Internet in the social lives of people. He believed that this transformation made an impact in the free flow of information that politically drives challenges. Ambassador Gross commented on the 2005 WSIS because of the powerful language used on paragraph 4 of the Tunis agenda that reiterated on Kuba buri wese ashobora kuyagiraho uruhare (Openness).
In the summer of 2008 he was loaned out to Olympiakos Volos, then playing in Beta Ethniki, to gain first team experience. He debuted for Olympiakos Volos in the opening game of the 2008-09 season, a 0-0 away draw against Pierikos. He even managed to score for Olympiakos Volos, to help the club grab an 1-1 home draw against Veria. Until the end of the season he totally featured in 19 matches not managing to score any other goals. After his loan spell in Volos Katsikas returned to Iraklis for the 2009-10 season. He could not break into the starting lineup, but nevertheless he made his debut for Iraklis in a cup against Gamma Ethniki side Trikala. Katsikas was sent off in his debut and eventually Iraklis got eliminated by the Cup after losing the contest by a 1-0 scoreline. In that season he also made his league debut for Iraklis, as he came in for teammate Achilleas Sarakatsanos in the 84th minute, in a 2-0 away defeat from Panathinaikos. In his second season for Iraklis Katsikas featured regularly in the playing squad of the club, playing in 13 of the club's league matches until February. On 9 February 2011 Katsikas suffered a torn cruciate ligament, in a friendly match of Greece U-21, and lost the remainder of the season.
The economy o Zhytomyr Oblast maistly deals wi minin o granite an ither construction stane, forestry, agricultur an various machinery manufacturin.
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). Encyclopædia Britannica (Eleventh ed.). Cambridge University Press.
The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen (1789; France) was one of the fundamental documents of the French Revolution, defining a set of individual rights and collective rights of the people.
Boas, Franz (n. d.), "The Relation of Darwin to Anthropology" («La relato di Darwin e l'antropologio») notes for a lecture; Boas papers (B/B61.5) American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia. Published on line with Herbert Lewis 2001b.
Carl E. Feather, Mountain People in a Flat Land: A Popular History of Appalachian Migration to Northeast Ohio, 1940–1965. Athens: Ohio University Press, 1998.
Al-Qanjarah (Arabic: القنجرة‎‎) is a toun in northwastren Sirie, admeenistratively pairt o the Latakia Govrenorate, locatit north o Latakia. Nearby localities include al-Shamiyah an Kirsana tae the north, Burj al-Qasab tae the wast, Sitmarkho tae the east, Baksa an Sqoubin tae the sooth. Accordin tae the Sirie Central Bureau o Statistics, Al-Qanjarah haed a population o 4,142 in the 2004 census.
Hájek, J. 2010: Catalogue of type specimens of beetles (Coleoptera) deposited in the National Museum, Prague, Czech Republic. Scarabaeidae: Dynamopodinae, Dynastinae, Melolonthinae and Rutelinae. Acta Entomologica Musei Nationalis Pragae, 50: 279-320. ISSN: 0374-1036 PDF
Her musical career led to film roles, beginning with a prominent role as The Acid Queen in the 1975 film Tommy, and an appearance in Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. She starred opposite Mel Gibson as Aunty Entity in Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome for which she received the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Actress in a Motion Picture, and her version of the film's theme, "We Don't Need Another Hero", was a hit single. She appeared in the 1993 film Last Action Hero.
By coordinated and planned cooperation of the elements, the organization is able to solve tasks that lie beyond the abilities of the single elements. The price paid by the elements is the limitation of the degrees of freedom of the elements. Advantages of organizations are enhancement (more of the same), addition (combination of different features) and extension. Disadvantages can be inertness (through co-ordination) and loss of interaction.
Wosa trygh Breten Vyghan, Massen a fethas y eskar chyf, Gratianus, ogas ha Paris. Y ladhas Gratianus ow fia orth Lugdunum (Lyon) 25es a vis Est, 383. Massen a fesyas Valentinianus II a-dhiworth Rom bys Theodosius I. An bennsita a emperoureth Massen o Augusta Treverorum (Trier) yn Bro Gall. Emperour kerys gans an werin o ev, spit dhe bersekutyans gorthkryjygyon ganso.
The Estonian Domestic and Premier League competitions are growing year on year and an intense program of regional development will continue into 2011 and onwards. Their number of home-grown Estonian players is increasing along with the added experience of a number of expatriate persons from full member nations who have been residing in Estonia for a number of years and are always willing to pass on experience and general playing tips to up and coming Estonians for the future of Cricket here.
Walsh, Stephen. 2007. "The Composer, the Antiquarian and the Go-between: Stravinsky and the Rosenthals". The Musical Times 148, no. 1898 (Spring): 19–34.
1342 (Sekete Makgolotharo Masomenne Pedi) ke nomoro yeo e elego magareng ga sekete makgolotharo masomenne tee le sekete makgolotharo masomenne tharo.
The glycerol-3-phosphate shuttle allows the NADH synthesized in the cytosol by glycolysis to contribute to the oxidative phosphorylation pathway in the mitochondria to generate ATP. It has been found in animals, fungi, and plants.
As with other groups, the members of this family show patterns in their electronic configuration, especially the outermost shells, resulting in trends in chemical behavior:
I am an AMERIIIIIICCCCCCCCAAAAANNNNNN!!!!! OSAMA IS ALLLLIVVVVEEEE!!!!!! WE DIDN'T LOSE THE VIETNAM WAR, WE TIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEEEEEEEEEEDDDDDDDDDDD!!!!
Collector ek 2008 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Dempsey Tillman ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Matthew Boylan, Brad Renfro acting kiye the.
Bhim-Initial reports that the Arjun hull might be used with a 155 mm self-propelled howitzer by fitting the South African T6 turret which has the G5 howitzer fitted, proved to be misfounded. The SPH would be integrated at Bharat Earth Movers Ltd, which would manufacture additional Arjun chassis & hulls for the purpose. At present, the Bhim SPH program is in limbo, since Denel has been temporarily blacklisted by the Indian Ministry of Defence, while corruption charges are being investigated. The HVF (OFB) has been ordered for serial production of 100 BHIM.
T-55 (900): Some of the T-55 tanks will be attached to infantry brigades and battalions as Tarmour AFV's since despite their vintage, the 105 mm L7 gun has substantial firepower.[૪]
Masis (Armenie: Մասիս), incorporatin the umwhile veelages o Narimanlu, Zangibasar, an Ulukhanlu, is a toun in Armenie in Ararat Province (marz), locatit on the left bank o the Hrazdan River, 14 km sooth o Yerevan. The ceety haes a lairge railwey commodity station that serves Yerevan an which wis, till the closin o the border wi Azerbaijan, o internaitional significance. The population is 21,376 fowk (accordin tae a 2001 census). The toun is ane o the closest tae Munt Ararat an Little Ararat. The muntains are visible frae maist auries o the ceety.
Lieutenant Hizuki's assistant until she is transferred with the Sonic Diver unit to the naval destroyer, Koryu. She collects and monitors Sonic Diver data. She is a reliable girl who is quick at her work. She is also shy and mousy but is known for having the largest bosom in the show. She was born on an island and has a younger sister named Hakashi and a childhood friend named Kurosawa Hiroharu. A picture of her is featured every episode when advertising the sponsors.
Artik haes mony monuments an kirks. At the square there is a Warld War II monument. A short distance frae the square are the twa kirks o Saunt Marine built in the 5t century an Surb Gevorg built in the 7t century. Surp Gevorg is the lairger o the twa an haed previously been turned intae a storehoose unner the Soviets. The first attempt tae restore the kirk wis made in early 1990s. Baith kirk are in partial ruins, wi restoration interruptit bi the collapse o the USSR. On Januar 6, 2006 a fund-raisin campaign wis annoonced in the ceety o Artik tae reconstruct S. Gevorg. Near the ceety is an aa an 18t century kirk in a cave, an a well preserved kirk o Lmbatavank (Surb Stepanos) built in the 7t century staundin on a hillside. The kirk wis reconstructit atween 1955-1956. Durin 1960 excavations, a Bronze-Age cemetery wis discovered unner the stanes.
Agatha Christie neɣ s yisem-is ameqqran Agatha Mary Clarissa Mille, telul deg 15 ctamber 1890, temmut g 12 yennayer 1976 (ar 85 iseggwasen). Nettat d tamarut s Tenglizt.
Lehtmetsa is a veelage in Anija Pairish, Harju Coonty in northren Estonie. It's locatit juist sooth o the toun o Kehra, on the left bank o the Jägala River. Lehtmetsa haes a population o 763 (as o 1 Januar 2010).
The numeric value represented in each case is dependent upon the value assigned to each symbol. Dalam komputer, angka nilai ini boleh diwakili oleh dua voltan berbeza; on a magnetic disk, kekutuban magnet may be used. A "positive", "yes", or "on" state is not necessarily equivalent to the numerical value of one; it depends on the architecture in use.
Most MATLAB functions can accept matrices and will apply themselves to each element. For example, mod(2*J,n) will multiply every element in "J" by 2, and then reduce each element modulo "n". MATLAB does include standard "for" and "while" loops, but (as in other similar applications such as R), using the vectorized notation often produces code that is faster to execute. This code, excerpted from the function magic.m, creates a magic square M for odd values of n (MATLAB function meshgrid is used here to generate square matrices I and J containing 1:n).
Darkness cannot be overcome by darkness. We need light. Similarly, power of spiritual darkness can be dispelled only by spiritual light. This talk will equip you with the true armor of God.
On November 24, just two days after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, the NFL played its normal schedule of games. Commissioner Pete Rozelle said about playing the games: "It has been traditional in sports for athletes to perform in times of great personal tragedy. Football was Mr. Kennedy's game. He thrived on competition." No NFL games were telecast, since on the afternoon of the 22nd, just after the president had been pronounced dead, CBS President Frank Stanton ordered that all regular programming be pre-empted until after Mr. Kennedy was buried. Normal programming, including the NFL, was replaced by non-stop news coverage, broadcast without commercials.
It is typical in a wiki to create links to pages that do not yet exist, as a way to invite others to share what they know about a subject new to the wiki.
In 1440, Johannes Gutenberg introduced Europe to the mechanical printing press, printing Bibles for mass consumption. The technology allowed for books and manuscripts – originally replicated by hand – to be printed at a much faster rate, thus spreading knowledge and helping to usher in the European Renaissance ... Google has done a similar job.
Leytron has a population (as of December 2016) of 3,135. As of 2008, 16.3% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (2000–2010 ) the population has changed at a rate of 24.3%. It has changed at a rate of 23.2% due to migration and at a rate of -1.4% due to births and deaths.
With easy access to the RER line , close to the TGV railway station of Chessy – Marne-la-Vallée and two international airports Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle and Orly, the city has a central position in the transport network.
Initially, Albert called the game with a rotating series of guest analysts on weeks that Esiason was unavailable. Beginning in 2009, Westwood One appointed Kevin Harlan and Warren Moon to serve as the backup broadcast team, with Harlan substituting for Albert on games he was unable to make due to other commitments and Moon substituting for Esiason.
(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) Next week, the Wikimedia Foundation will transition its main technical operations to a new data center in Ashburn, Virginia, USA. This is intended to improve the technical performance and reliability of all Wikimedia sites, including this wiki. There will be some times when the site will be in read-only mode, and there may be full outages; the current target windows for the migration are January 22nd, 23rd and 24th, 2013, from 17:00 to 01:00 UTC (see other timezones on timeanddate.com). More information is available in the full announcement.
Fetal factors include the fetus genome, nutrient production, and hormone output. Also, female fetuses tend to weigh less than males, at full term.
IEEE Transactions on Communications, Special Publication on Telecommunication in Developing Countries, Volume COM-24, Number 7, July 1976 (Part II here)
Haink Slattys Aaghreim Ellan Vannin 1765 lurg co-unnaneys Nalbin as Sostyn ayns 1707 as skeaylley ard-whaiyl ny h-Albey. Ayns 1800 cho-unnanee Bretyn Vooar as Nerin, lesh skeaylley ard-whaiyl ny h-Erin myrgeddin.
The Dilemma ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Ron Howard ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Vince Vaughn, Kevin James, Jennifer Connelly, Winona Ryder acting kiye the.
The First spilt avAdam Busch Clair Kramer George Hertzberg Harry Groener Juliet Landau Mark Metcalf Sarah Michelle Gellar Danny StrongAzura Skye Kristine Sutherland James Marsters Carrie SouthworthAmanda Fuller Lalaine VargasK.D. Aubert Nathan Fillion
D. C. Johanson und Y. Coppens: A Preliminary Anatomical Diagnosis of the First Plio-Pleistoice Hominid Discoveries in the Central Afra, Ethiopia. Americal Journal of Physical Anthropology 45, Sept. 1976, S. 217-234
پاڪستان ۾ عام موڪلون are celebrated according to Islamic or Gregorian calendars for religious and civil purposes, respectively. Religious festivals like Eid are celebrated according to the Islamic calendar whereas other national holidays like international labour day, Pakistan day, and Quaid-i-Azam Day are celebrated according to the Gregorian calendar.
Y chied lioar chaslys-skeealyn slane jeant ayns ny Steaytyn Unnaneysit, she The Yellow Kid in McFadden's Flats ve ayns 1897, as eshyn jannoo y chied ymmyd jeh’n fockle comic book (“lioar caslys-skeealyn”). Agh cha daink caslys-earishlioaryn dy ve nyn cummey ym-fysseraght derrey ny 1930yn, lesh Famous Funnies: A Carnival of Comics,. Er lesh screeudeyryn shennaghys, shen y chied feer chaslys-earishlioar Americaanagh; myr sampleyr, ta Goulart gra dy row eh "clagh chorneilagh da nane jeh ny banglaneyn smoo vondeishagh ayns çhymskylagh soilshaghey magh earishlioaryn".
After 400 long years, changes have been made to the old barrios that consist the town, Bagio become part of Bagumbayan in 1731, Tibig exist in 1735, Dapdap was renamed Sta. Ana in 1741, Nagdasig become part of Tab-Ang in 1744 and now San Francisco, Parian was renamed Sta. Inez in 1765, Bulakan (Camino Real), Daan Estacion, Paniqui and Calungusan was created into one barrio and was named San Jose, Barrio Pitpitan occupied Acsajo, Cupang was joined to Maysantor now Maysantol, Banban became Bangbang and now Bambang, Perez exist as separate Barrio of Taliktik now Taliptip, and with the same old name of Barrio's San Nicolas, Matungao and Balubad.
Military Justice, as in the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Most nations have a separate code of law which regulates both certain activities allowed only in war, as well as provides a code of law applicable only to a soldier in war (or 'in uniform' during peacetime).
Simeone, Lisa, with Robert Craft and Philip Glass. 1999. "Igor Stravinsky" NPR's Performance Today: Milestones of the Millennium (16 April). Washington, DC: National Public Radio. Archive (edited) at NPR Online.
(b) securing freedom of choice—which requires the individual to make important decisions affecting his/her own life (what work to do, what to consume etc.).
In the 2011 "Ranking America's High Schools" issue by The Washington Post, the school was ranked 43rd in New Jersey and 1,358th nationwide. In Newsweek's May 22, 2007 issue, ranking the country's top high schools, Columbia High School was listed in 1192nd place, the 39th-highest ranked school in New Jersey.
NFP ke splinter froup Hindustani log ke cause ke champion karat rahaa aur ii nai maangat rahaa ki ko Kaiviti (Timoci Bavadra) Hindustani logan ke leader bane. Ii logan ek alag Ministry for Indian Affairs ke maang karin, 99-year leases Crown lands pe, aur civil service ke kaam ke jaati ke aadhar pe d ke bhi maang karin, jsime , 42 per cent each for the Fijians and the Indians and the remaining 16 per cent for general electors khatir.
1927 - Sewak Masih, now teaching in Levuka, organised a conference (in Levuka) to which teachers from Ba, Lautoka, Nadi and Suva are invited. Dukhharan leads a group from the west.
General George Ramsay, 9t Yerl o Dawhoosie GCB (23 October 1770 – 21 Mairch 1838), styled Laird Ramsay till 1787, wis a Scots sodger an colonial admeenistrator.
Poor America, 1997: News & Review led a national effort of 90 weekly newspapers around the country in a conversation about welfare reform and extreme poverty in the nation
Ghow spoyrtyn mooarey, goaill stiagh soccer, ruggyr, criggad, tennys as golf, toshiaght 'sy Reeriaght Unnaneysit. Rere co-earroo ny bleeaney 2006, she soccer y spoyrt smoo ennoil 'sy Reeriaght Unnaneysit.
«Seeking Out Legendary Hollywood; The Artifacts of Tinsel Town: In Search of the Hollywood That Once Was If You Go ...». New York Times. 6. april 1980. Besøkt 30. juli 2016. (abonnement kreves).
GS Bucher (2000), "The Origins, Program, and Composition of Appian’s Roman History", in Transactions of the American Philological Association 130 : 411–458 Hic legere potes
The Russon mill, a water mill is located in the street of de la Brosse. The former owner has restored it. The mill was a component of the outbuildings of the Farm of Roquemont. It was used as a mill only for a few months and was otherwise used as accommodation for the farm hands.
Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs (L'era glaciale 3 - L'alba dei dinosauri in Itagliàn). 20th Century Fox. Manny, Diego, Sid, Ellie, Crash, Eddie, Scrat, Scratte, Buck.
According to a SIL report, sign pagsasao of Russia, Moldova and Ukraine share a high degree of lexical similarity and may be dialects of one pagsasao, or distinct related pagsasao. The same report suggested a "cluster" of sign pagsasao centered around Czech Sign Pagsasao, Hungarian Sign Pagsasao and Slovakian Sign Pagsasao. This group may also include Romanian, Bulgarian, and Polish sign pagsasao.
Harry Soref founded the Master Lock Company in 1921 and patented an improved padlock in 1924 with a patent lock casing constructed out of laminated steel.
Fabien Alain Barthez (French pronunciation: [fa.bjɛ̃ baʁ.tɛz]; born 28 Juin 1971) is a retired French fitbawer wha won honours as a goalkeeper wi Marseille, Manchester United an the French naitional team, wi whom he won the 1998 FIFA Warld Cup an Euro 2000 an reached the final o the 2006 Warld Cup.
Hail Mary, full of grace; the Lord is with Thee: blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.* Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death.
Schlitter, Duane A. (November 16, 2005). Wilson, D. E., and Reeder, D. M. (eds) Mammal Species of the World, 3rd edition, Johns Hopkins University Press, 82-85.
To find someone who speaks a particular language, see Wikipedians by languages, and follow the links. For the most part, the two and three letter codes are taken from ISO 639, but see this list for a comprehensive guide.
The initial part of the ceremony interspersed the performances of various Greek singers, and featured traditional Greek dance performances from various regions of Greece (Crete, Pontos, Thessaly, etc.). The event was meant to highlight the pride of the Greeks in their culture and country for the world to see.
Sophocles a wehna di sekan a di chrii ienchent Griik chrajidi raita dem uufa wok sovaiv. Im fos plie dem wehn rait afta di plie dem we Aeschyus rait, bot orliya dan di wan dem we Euripides rait. Sophocles wehn rait 123 plie, bot a onggl 7 sovai ina kompliit faam. Dem niem, Ajax, Antigone, Trachinian Women, Oedipus the King, Electra, Philoctetes and Oedipus at Colonus.
Sayyid Yusuf Hashim al-Rifa’i. Nasiha li-Ikhwaninia Ulama’ Najd (“Advice to our Brethren the Scholars of Najd”). Introduction by M.S.R. al-Buti. With Sayyid ‘Alawi Ahmad al-Haddad’s Misbah al-Anam (“The Light of Mankind”). English.
It is this unconcealment of being that defines Dasein for Heidegger: Dasein is that being for whom being is an issue, that is, for whom being shows up as such. This is why Heidegger begins his inquiry into the meaning of being with an inquiry into the essence of Dasein; The unconcealment of being is an essentially temporal and historical phenomenon (hence the "time" in Being and Time); what we call past, present, and future correspond originarily to aspects of this unconcealment and not to three mutually exclusive regions of the homogeneous time that clocks measure (although clock-time is derivative from the originary time of unconcealment, as Heidegger attempts to show in the book's difficult final chapters).
Alt Berguedà is rainy an (bi Catalan standards) cauld, wi snaw in the winter on the heicher peaks. Average annual precipitation exceeds 1000 mm (40 inches), maistly in the wairmer saisons.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill KG OM CH TD FRS PC (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) ek English politician rahaa, jon ki World War II ke time United Kingdom ke Prime Minister rahaa. He was also a soldier, journalist, and author. He won the Nobel Prize for literature.
The Wash-house, built in the mid-19th century. Bussy already used a very old wash-house close to a spring in Ferrières: the wash-house of Cessoy. But it was too far from the center of the village and difficult to reach for the washerwomen who used barrows for the laundry. The city council bargained with the family de Guermantesfor to acquire land attached to another spring, in the upper side of the street du Moulin, for building the second wash-house. Currently, the wash-house of Cessoy is private, in contrast to the public one in the street du Moulin.
The license was designed for manuals, textbooks, other reference and instructional materials, and documentation which often accompanies GPL software. However, it can be used for any text-based work, regardless of subject matter.
A joint Russian project of Ground microprocessing information systems SRC "PLANETA" and Space Monitoring Information Support laboratory (IKI RAN) dedicated to the 40th anniversary of Sputnik 1
Robinson, David, and Stephen Herbert, Richard Crangle, eds. Encyclopaedia of the Magic Lantern (London: The Magic Lantern society, 2001), 73-74.
Wilson Hunter, Sir William; Sutherland Cotton, James; Sir Richard Burn, Sir William Stevenson Meyer. Great Britain India Office. The Imperial Gazetteer of India (en anglès). Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1908.
Mast, C. Z. unn Robt. E. Simpson (1942) Annals of the Conestoga Valley in Lancaster, Berks, and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania, Scottdale, Pennsilfaani: Mennonite Publishing House, 689 pages.
lists (making it possible to create lists and similar things based on queries to Wikidata so they update automatically when new data is added or modified)
Currently, industrial activity is locate mainly in atween Berga an Puig-reig. The openin o the Cadí Tunnel an the general impruivement o the roads in recent (as o 2004) years mey impruive the economic potential o the Llobregat Valley an o Berguedà in general.
The alkaline earth metals are six chemical elements in column (group) 2 of the Periodic table. They are beryllium (Be), magnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca), strontium (Sr), barium (Ba), and radium (Ra). The elements have very similar properties: they are all shiny, silvery-white, somewhat reactive metals at standard temperature and pressure.
Camas Valley - Camp Sherman - Canby - Cannon Beach - Canyon City - Canyonville - Carlton - Carpenterville - Carver* - Cascade Locks - Cascadia - Cave Junction - Cayuse - Cecil - Cedar HillsCitakan:GR* - Cedar Mill - Celilo Village - Central Point - Champoeg - Charleston - Chemult - Cherry Grove - Cherryville - Cheshire - Chiloquin - Christmas Valley - Clackamas - Clatskanie - Cloverdale - Coburg - Colton - Columbia City - Condon - Coos Bay - Copperfield* - Coquille - Corbett - Cornelius - Corvallis - Cottage Grove - Cove - Crabtree - Crane - Crawfordsville - Crescent - Crescent Lake - Creswell - Crow - Culp Creek - Culver - Curtin - Cushman
Borges Center, University of Iowa: important internet resources including bibliographies, chronologies, full text articles and books, and information on the journal Variaciones Borges
(A system performing a given basic function is irreducibly complex if it includes a set of well-matched, mutually interacting, nonarbitrarily individuated parts such that each part in the set is indispensable to maintaining the system's basic, and therefore original, function. The set of these indispensable parts is known as the irreducible core of the system).
Judith Tizard (born 3 Januar 1956) is a New Zealand politeecian, an a member o the kintra’s pairlament in Wellington, representin the Labour Pairty. She is a consteetuency member unner the proportional representation seestem, representin Central Auckland.
Löwenstedt Olmoniyaning Schleswig-Holstein yerida joylashgan kommunadir. Nordfriesland tumani tarkibiga kiradi. Maydoni – 19,62 km2. 683 nafar aholi istiqomat qiladi (2010).
Military history has a number of purposes. One main purpose is to learn from past accomplishments and mistakes so as to more effectively wage war in the future. Another is to create a sense of tradition which is used to create cohesive military forces. Still another may be to learn to prevent wars more effectively.
Bhima Bhoi. 1992. Bhaktakavi Bhimabhoi Granthavali. Edited by Karunakar Sahu and published by Vidhyadhar Sahu. Cuttack: Dharmagrantha Store.
Ajanta, Maharaxttrantolem purvil'lem vihar ani vonnttichitram hanchem ek namnechem tholl. Ozonttha ho gamv lenneamposun 6 kimi . Ontracher dengrar axil'lea karnnan hacho ul'lekh ‘ojinttheachi lenni (caves)’ oso kortat. Torikuy hangche thollave lok tancho ul'lekh ‘fordapurochim lenni’ oso kortat. Ourongabad jilheant ut'torek sumar 108 kimi. Ontracher ani fordapur hea gamvam posun dokxinnek sumar 5 kimi. Ontracher soheadri porvotachea rangentlea indheadri xakhent him boud'dh lenni korantleant.
Though Lee spends most of her time playing classical music, she also plays across all art forms and a wide musical spectrum. She has played for theatre, dance and film and performs and records regularly with Scotland's jazz and folk luminaries and is also Chief Patron of the Perth Youth Orchestra. In 2009 she further explored the territory of improvised music, collaborating with painter Alan Kilpatrick to perform an improvised live installation piece at the Fleming Gallery in London Mayfair. In January 2012, Lee performed with former Cream bass player, Jack Bruce with Mr McFall's Chamber at Celtic Connections.
Yn 2015, yth esa nowodhow a-dhyworth Governans Westminster bos Kernow ow tegemmeres galloes nowydh y'ga mysk galloes may hyllo an konsel restra an kyttrinyow ha'n arghans Europek dhedha.
Wilson, D. E., and D. M. Reeder. 1993. Mammal Species of the World, A Taxonomic and Geographic Reference. 2nd edition. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington. xviii+1206 pp.
Karen McVeigh, Nicholas Watt, "Andrew Mitchell’s career left in tatters after losing Plebgate libel case" in The Guardian (27 Novembris 2014)
A. V. Hill, christened Archibald Vivian (which names he detested) CH OBE FRS (26 September 1886 – 3 June 1977) je onimo sayensi to gba Ebun Nobel fun Iwosan.
Ayns ny bleeantyn jeianagh, ta kiaull hradishoonagh as daunse Yernagh çheet dy ve ennoil reesht, trooid y phenomenon Riverdance er lheh, cloie theateragh jeh daunse tradishoonagh Yernagh. Ayns ny bleeantyn meanagh jeh'n 20-oo eash, tra va Nerin jeianaghey, huitt y chiaull hradishoonagh ass foayr, ayns ardjyn baljagh er lheh. Car ny 1960yn, as tayrn stiagh ennal veih gleashaght chiaullee çheerey Americaanagh, haghyr aavioghey ayns anaase ayns kiaull hradishoonagh Yernagh, as va'n aavioghey shen stiurit liorish possanyn lheid as The Dubliners, The Chieftains, Emmet Spiceland, The Wolfe Tones, ny Clancy Brothers, Sweeney's Men as fir er lheh lheid as Seán Ó Riada as Christy Moore. Hug possanyn as kiaulleyderyn, goaill stiagh Horslips, Van Morrison, as Thin Lizzy meeryn dy chiaull hradishoonagh stiagh 'sy chiaull chraaee noa-emshiragh as, car ny 1970yn as ny 1980yn, haink er yn anchaslys eddyr kiaulleyderyn tradishoonagh as kiaulleyderyn craaee dy ve millit, as cooid vooar dy 'leih goll harrish ny linnaghyn ayns aghtyn cloie. Ta'n cleayney shoh ry-akin ayns obbyr jeianagh jeh ellyneyryn lheid as Enya, The Saw Doctors, The Corrs, Sinéad O'Connor, Clannad, The Cranberries, Black 47 as The Pogues mastey possanyn elley. Car ny 1990yn, haink fo-horçh dy chiaull veainagh çheerey magh ayns Nerin as ee mestey kiaull veainagh hrome lesh kiaull Yernagh as Celtiagh. V'ad ny possanyn toshee jeh'n fo-horçh shen na Cruachan, Primordial, as Waylander. Ta possanyn kiaullee noa-emshiragh ennagh goaill ny s'gerrey da feaym "tradishoonagh", goaill stiagh Altan, Téada, Danú, Dervish, Lúnasa, as Solas. Ta fir elley goaill stiagh ymmodee dy chultooryn myr co-haaghey dy horçhyn, lheid as yn Afro Celt Sound System as Kíla. Ta'n chooish ry-akin mastey biallyssyn Yernagh gys yn Eurovision Song Contest, co-hirrey kiaullee ooilley-Oarpagh ta cosnit shiaght keayrtyn ec Nerin, ny ny smoo na un çheer elley.
Landscape comprises the visible features o an aurie o laund, includin the pheesical elements o landforms such as (ice-capped) muntains, hills, watter bodies such as rivers, lochs, ponds an the sea, livin elements o laund cover includin indigenous vegetation, human elements includin different furms o laund uise, biggins an structurs, an transitory elements such as lichtin an wather condeetions.
On June 15 2009, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal P.V. Naik said to India Strategic defence magazine that IAF chooses Boeing’s latest C-17 as its new Very Heavy Lift Transport Aircraft (VHTAC). The decision to get C-17 was taken after a thorough study, but Naik said that the aircraft was chosen because of its capability to take off and land on short runways with heavy loads, long range, and ease of operation. India is looking to acquire 10 C-17s initially through the US government’s Foreign Military Sales (FMS) route.
Accordin tae the Italian medieval historian Giovanni Villani, the toun wis foondit in 1296 bi the Republic o Florence. The design o the historic center is based on the organisation o Roman ceeties wi a lairge central piazza frae which twa main roads run perpendicular tae each ither. Frae these twa main roads run ither seicontar streets.
Tobin, Jesse, 2007. The Wild Hunt. In Hollerbeier Haven: Journal of Traditional Deitsch Wisdom. November 2007. Kempton, PA: Three Sisters Center.
2008 - Fiji me soccer ke 32nd Battle of the Giants, Suva ke Post Fiji Stadium me khela gais rahaa, jiske final me Ba, Labasa ke 2-1 se harais.
Language links in the sidebar are going to come from Wikidata in addition to the ones in the wiki text. To edit them, scroll to the bottom of the language links, and click edit. You no longer need to maintain these links by hand in the wiki text of the article.
Jamaica, Caribbean Samundar me ek island hau. Iske capital Kingston hae. Iske uppar pahile Spain raaj karis lekin lagbhag 1800 me ii British ke niche aais. Jamaica 1962 me ajaad bhaes.
The botija was used to hold kerosene brought from Spain. Botijas were then used to hide money underground and were buried to prevent humidity from reaching the floors. Later, botijas were dug up and used as musical instruments in the late 19th century in the Caribbean island of Cuba.
An Wyrghes yw arwoedh steroriethek ynter an Lew ha'n Vantol. Yn sterorieth an Howlsedhes, yma'n arwoedh ma ow talleth an 23ns a vis Est ha diwedh an 22ns a vis Gwynngala. Yn sterorieth Hindou, war an par arall, termyn an Wyrghes yw 16ves Gwynngala bys 30ns Hedra.
Apart from sports, the College also runs an annual event known as the Bulileka Sanatan College’s concert night. The purpose of the concert is to raise funds for the school’s projects with part of the funds directed towards students’ welfare.
Ta shiaght slystyn echey: Ashfield, Bassetlaw, Broxtowe, Gedling, Mansfield, Newark as Sherwood as Rushcliffe. Va Nottingham City nyn mast'oc eddyr 1974 as 1998, agh t'eh ny lught-reill unnaneagh nish er son reirey, ga dy vel eh fo y choontae jesh-chliaghtagh foast.
Reynolds plays the guitar, piano, sitar, drums, violin, bass, keyboards, ethnic percussive instruments, solo djembe, harp, uses drum machines for special effects, and sings, although his performances are primarily instrumental rock music. As well as being the founding member of the band TR3, he is one of the musicians who performed at "Miller's", in Charlottesville, Virginia, befriending and encouraging the bartender, a young Dave Matthews, to form a band of his own, introducing him to local musicians, several of whom make up the Dave Matthews Band. While Reynolds declined the offer to join as an official member, he recorded and toured as a sideman with the Dave Matthews Band from its inception until late 1998, rejoining them as a permanent member in June 2008. He often tours with Dave Matthews as an acoustic duo, in addition to performing as a member of Dave Matthews & Friends.
'FDA pregnancy category X. This medication can harm an unborn baby or cause birth defects. Do not use chenodiol if you are pregnant. Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant during treatment. Use effective birth control while you are using this medication.
Many Goans reportedly felt that the Portuguese were deliberately misleading the international community by portraying Goans as Luso-Indian or Portuguese. Following his release from prison, P.D. Gaitonde conducted a series of international lectures to challenge this notion. With increased support from the international community and rebellions in the Portuguese African colonies, the policy position of the India government was able to become more hardline.प्रारूप:Citation needed
Relief or orographic rain is formed when air is forced to cool when it rises over relief features in the landscape such as hills or mountains. As it rises it cools, condenses and forms rain. The highest annual rainfall totals occur in mountain areas. There is often a rain shadow effect whereby the leeward (downwind) slope receives a relatively small amount of rain.
Carabobo State (Spaingie: Estado Carabobo, IPA: [esˈtaðo kaɾaˈβoβo]) is ane o the 23 states o Venezuela, locatit in the north o the kintra, aboot twa oors bi caur frae Caracas. The caipital ceety o this state is Valencia, which is the kintra's main industrial center an aw. The state's aurie is 4,650 km² an haed an estimatit population o 2,227,000 in 2007.
Forbush, Edward Howe (1912): A History of the Game Birds, Wild-Fowl and Shore Birds of Massachusetts and Adjacent States. Boston: Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture, pp. 411-416.
Cruz Azul is the maist successful club in CONCACAF Champions League, wi sax titles an is, accordin tae several polls published, the third maist popular team in Mexico (efter Guadalajara an Club América).
"Space Pens", developed by Fisher in the United States, which combine a more viscous than normal ballpoint pen ink with a gas pressurized piston which forces the ink toward the point. This design allows the pen to write even upside down or in zero gravity environments.
1993: Offenburg - You Can Change Your World 1994: Friedrichshafen - Living in an Upside Down World 1995: Wolfsburg - Another Day in Paradise 1996: Mosbach - Original Copy 1997: Offenburg - Theatre of Life 1998: Wolfsburg - Dare To Dream 1999: Offenburg - Inside Out Revolution 2000: Mosbach - The Image 2001: Offenburg - Kingdom Come 2002: Oldenburg - Secrets Revealed 2003: Offenburg - re:Discovering Jesus 2004: Oldenburg - Driving At The Speed Of Life 2005: Münster - Time Machine: Remember The Future 2006: Offenburg - Metamorphosis: The Heart of Change 2007: Oldenburg - Contagious: Infect Your Sphere 2008: Oldenburg - Blindsight 2009: Offenburg - Impossible
Airborne ek 1993 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Rob Bowman ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Shane McDermott, Seth Green, Brittney Powell, Chris Conrad acting kiye the.
Hinz R., Horstmann K. (2004). Revision of the eastern Palearctic species of Dusona Cameron (Insecta, Hymenoptera, Ichneumonidae, Campopleginae). Spixiana, supplement 29. 183 pp.
Ribbink, A. 1991. Distribution and Ecology of the Cichlids of the African Great Lakes. Pp. 36-59 a M. Keenleyside, ed. Cichlid Fishes: Behavior, Ecology and Evolution. Londres, Gran Bretanya: Chapman and Hall.
E. Bott; Tongan society at the time of Captain Cook’s visits: discussions with Her Majesty Queen Sālote, 1982. Memoir of The Polynesian Society 44, 16-17.
Creative Commons licenses are several copyright licenses that allow the distribution of copyrighted works. The licenses differ by several combinations that condition the terms of distribution. They were initially released on December 16, 2002 by Creative Commons, a U.S. non-profit corporation founded in 2001.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist. Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
Catch .44 ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Aaron Harvey ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Malin Akerman, Nikki Reed, Deborah Ann Woll, Forest Whitaker acting kiye the.
1385 (Sekete Makgolotharo Masomeseswai Hlano) ke nomoro yeo e elego magareng ga sekete makgolotharo masomeseswai nne le sekete makgolotharo masomeseswai tshela.
Heenan PB, Dawson MI, Wagstaff SJ 2004. The relationship of Sophora sect. Edwardsia (Fabaceae) to Sophora tomentosa, the type species of the genus Sophora, observed from DNA sequence data and morphological characters Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society 146, 439–446.
Guiry, M.D. (2009). Mesophyllum schenckii Howe, 1934. In: Guiry, M.D. & Guiry, G.M. (2009). AlgaeBase. World-wide electronic publication, National University of Ireland, Galway.
Wolfram, Walt, Carolyn Temple Adger, and Donna Christian. 1999. Dialects in Schools and Communities. Mahwah, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers.
൩ ^ "...for two long lifetimes of work dedicated to realising in practice the Gandhian vision of social justice and sustainable human development, for which they have been referred to as 'India's soul'."
Walther Bothe and Siegfried Flügge (editors) Nuclear Physics and Cosmic Rays (FIAT Review of German Science 1939 – 1945, Volumes 13 and 14 (Klemm, 1948) ]
João Bernardo "Nino" Vieira (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʒwɐ̃w bɨɾˈnaɾðu ˈɲinu viˈejɾɐ], 27 Aprile 1939 – 2 Mairch 2009) wis the Preses o Guinea-Bissau frae 1980 tae 1984, for the seicont time frae 1984 tae 1999, an for the third time frae 2005 tae 2009.
The River Ness (Scots Gaelic: Abhainn Nis) is a river aboot 12 miles or 20 km lang, which flows frae the northren end o Loch Ness in Scotland, throu Loch Dochfour, north-east tae Innerness, wi a tot faw in hicht o aboot 16 metres afore dischargin intae the Beauly Firth.
Martin, Dan. 2006. “Padampa Sanggye: A History of Representation of a South Indian Siddha in Tibet.” In Holy Madness: Portrait of Tantric Siddhas, ed. Rob Linrothe. New York, Rubin Museum of Art. 108-123.
Collinson, M. (2006). Splitting headaches? Recent taxonomic changes affecting the British and Western Palaearctic lists. British Birds 99(6): 306-323.
He lost 18 months in the prime of his career when he was injured by a hard tackle. During a 1960 game against the Philadelphia Eagles, he was knocked out by Chuck Bednarik on a passing play, suffering a severe head injury that led him to retire from football in 1961. However, Gifford returned to the Giants in 1962, changing positions from running back to flanker (now a type of "wide receiver").
Fraser, James Baillie (1820). Journal of a tour through part of the snowy range of the Himala Mountains, and to the sources of the rivers Jumna and Ganges. Rodwell and Martin, London.
Amarasingham ,L. 1983' Laughter Suffering :sinhalese Interpretations of the Use of Ritual Humur. Baltimore : University of Margland School of Medicine
Peddagorpadu and also Chinnagorpadu are two famous Villages near pakala. So many young stars are at very good positions in software industry in this village.
Jilin (Cheenese: 吉林; pinyin: Jílín; Wade–Giles: Chi-lin, IPA: [tɕǐlǐn] ( listen); Postal map spellin: Kirin), is a province o the Fowkrepublic o Cheenae locatit in the northeastren pairt o the kintra. The name wis transliteratit tae Kirin afore staundartisation tae pinyin.
San Mauro Torinese is an Italian comune wi 18,367 inhabitants (2004) in the Province o Turin in the Piedmont region. It is bordered bi the territories o Settimo Torinese, Castiglione Torinese, Turin, an Baldissero Torinese.
She ard-chione-stashoon Raad Yiarn Vannin eh Stashoon traenagh Ghoolish (Baarle: Douglas Railway Station). T'eh ny hoie ec jerrey yn cheiy Hwoaie lesh y thalloo, faggys da shenn valley Ghoolish, preeu-valley Vannin. Ayns ny laghyn t'ayn jiu, she kione-stashoon jeh'n raad yiarn veih Purt Çhiarn gys Doolish, agh ayns ny laghyn ceaut va shirveishyn traenagh gimmeeaght gys Purt ny h-Inshey ayns sheear yn Ellan as gys Rhumsaa 'sy twoaie.
The Kashmere Gate campus is housed in the erstwhile Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University campus, along with Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University. The historical campus originally built for Delhi College of Engineering also houses the 300-year-old Dara Shikoh library. It is located close to the Delhi Vidhan Sabha, Old Delhi Railway Station, St. James' Church, Delhi and Red Fort. It is accessible by the red and the yellow line of Delhi Metro. It is a five minutes walk from the Kashmere Gate metro station.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30
Rogues knew a good deal about lock-picking long before locksmiths discussed it among themselves, as they have lately done. If a lock, let it have been made in whatever country, or by whatever maker, is not so inviolable as it has hitherto been deemed to be, surely it is to the interest of honest persons to know this fact, because the dishonest are tolerably certain to apply the knowledge practically;and the spread of the knowledge is necessary to give fair play to those who might suffer by ignorance.
Aristide R. Zolberg, Astri Suhrke & Sergio Aguayo Escape from violence - conflict and the refugee crisis in the developing world, New York: Oxford UP, 1989
Fiji me football (soccer) ke 4th Battle of the Giants tournament Lautoka ke Churchill Park me khela gais rahaa jiske final me Ba Lautoka ke 2-0 se harais.
After the scandal, Shealy temporarily stopped working as a political consultant and developed a chain of newspapers. After a rival newspaper owner announced that he was running for state treasurer in 1994, Shealy stepped back into consulting to find a candidate to run against him.
Collins, David J. (2001). "Bursfelders, Humanists, and the Rhetoric of Sainthood: The Late Medieval vitae of Saint Benno". Revue Benedictine 111: 508-556.
Simeon Citadel and Dead Cities, Suggestion to have Saint Simeon Stylites recognized as a UNESCO world heritage site, in 2006, as part of "Simeon Citadel and Dead Cities"-project.
Jacques Derrida, "Ousia and Gramme: Note on a Note from Being and Time," Margins of Philosophy (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1982).
The Wonder ek 2014 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Marek Ryszard Dojs ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Wiley Reeder, Clayton Guiltner, D'Orsay Bryant acting kiye the.
Rio Grande da Serra is a municipality in the state o São Paulo in Brazil. It is locate aboot 49 kilometres (30 mi) bi road sootheast o the centre o the ceety o São Paulo, an is incorporatit intae the Microregion o São Paulo an the São Paulo Metropolitan Aurie. The population reportit bi the offeecial wabsteid o the Govrenment o Brazil is 44,000.
Girard, René. 1988. "To Double Business Bound": Essays on Literature, Mimesis, and Anthropology. Baltimorae: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Jon Ruthven, "'This Is My Covenant with Them': Isaiah 59.19-21 as the Programmatic Prophecy of the New Covenant in the Acts of the Apostles." Journal of Pentecostal Theology 17 (2008), Part I: 32-47; Part II: 219-37.
It is found in shallow fresh and salt water wetlands and ponds in China and adjacent temperate and subtropical East Asia. Essentially a lowland bird, its range is delimited by the subarctic regions in the north, and by the mountain ranges in the west and south.
Municipal information: Municipal Affairs Federal Institute (IFAM), Municipal Affairs Secretariat, Ministry o Interior, Argentinae. (Spaingie)
Galina Yavorskaya: The Mongolian sheep-dog - the most ancient breed, Burjatskogo Nautjnogo Tsentra (Buryat Scientific Center), Ulan-Ude, Burjatien, Ryssland (läst 2011-08-08)
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 46,761 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 153.38 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 2201.
Before You Is the Sea ek 2011 mein bana Hebrew, Arabic film hain. Yea film Germany, Israel, Palestine mein Hisham Zreiq ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Hisham Silman, Hili Yalon acting kiye the.
Antisthenes was a pupil of Socrates, from whom he imbibed the fundamental ethical precept that virtue, not pleasure, is the end of existence. In all that the wise man does, Antisthenes said, he conforms to perfect virtue, and pleasure is not only unnecessary to man, but a positive evil. He is reported to have held pain and even ill-repute (يوناني: ἀδοξία) to be blessings, and that madness is preferable to pleasure. It is, however, probable that he did not consider all pleasure worthless, but only that which results from the gratification of sensual or artificial desires, for we find him praising the pleasures which spring "from out of one's soul", and the enjoyments of a wisely chosen friendship. The supreme good he placed in a life lived according to virtue, - virtue consisting in action, which when obtained is never lost, and exempts the wise man from error. It is closely connected with reason, but to enable it to develop itself in action, and to be sufficient for happiness, it requires the aid of Socratic strength (يوناني: Σωκρατικὴ ἱσχύς).
Atkins, Anna. Memoari J. C. Childrena, uključujući nešto neizdane poezije njegova oca i njega sama. (Memoir of J.C. Children, including some unpublished poetry by his father and himself.). London: John Bowye Nichols and Sons, 1853.
The Accipitriformes is an order that haes been proponed tae include maist o the diurnal birds o prey: hawks, eagles, vultures, an mony ithers, aboot 225 species in aw.
Neural network algorithms for the analyzing of QEEG and psychometrical/psychological data by chronic occupational neurotoxic diseases of CNS (kaasautor). // Proc. of the Euro Brain`97. Aalborg, Denmark, 1997
Er 1 Boaldyn, 1169, haink turrys-contoyrtys dy reejereeyn Bretnagh-Normanagh er y çheer ec Cuan an Bhainbh ayns Coontae Logh Garman lesh sheshaght chaggee va jeant seose jeh mygeayrt shey keead dy hidooryn. Va'n turrys stiurit liorish Richard de Clare, as eh enmyssit Strongbow ("bow troshtagh") rere y lajerid echey myr sideyr. Va'n ruegys shen, va taghyrt ec tra cheddin jeh bishaghey Normanagh noa, jeant ec cuirrey Diarmait Mac Murchada, ree Lion.
Durante gli anni cinquanta e sessanta, Powell è apparsa regolarmente in spettacoli televisivi, incluse partecipazioni straordinarie accanto ad artisti di grido in varietà in auge in quel periodo: Perry Como Show, The Andy Williams Show, Kraft Music Hall, Frank Sinatra, The Ed Sullivan Show, The Hollywood Palace, The Red Skelton Show, Eddie Fisher, The Dinah Shore Show, The Dean Martin Show, The Smothers Brothers, Alan King, This is Tom Jones, The Garry Moore Show, The Jerry Lewis Show e The Judy Garland Show.
The widely praised Opening Ceremony by avant garde choreographer Dimitris Papaioannou held on August 13, 2004 began with a twenty eight (the number of the Olympiads up to then) second countdown paced by the sounds of an amplified heartbeat. As the countdown was completed, fireworks rumbled and illuminated the skies overhead. After a drum corps and bouzouki players joined in an opening march, the video screen showed images of flight, crossing southwest from Athens over the Greek countryside to ancient Olympia. Then, a single drummer in the ancient stadium joined in a drum duet with a single drummer in the main stadium in Athens, joining the original ancient Olympic games with the modern ones in symbolism. At the end of the drum duet, a single flaming arrow was launched from the video screen (symbolically from ancient Olympia) and into the reflecting pool, which resulted in fire erupting in the middle of the stadium creating a burning image of the Olympic rings rising from the pool. The Opening Ceremony was a pageant of traditional Greek culture and history hearkening back to its mythological beginnings. The program began as a young Greek boy sailed into the stadium on a 'paper-ship' waving the host nation's flag to aethereal music by Hadjidakis and then a centaur appeared, followed by a gigantic head of a cycladic figurine which eventually broke into many pieces symbolising the Greek islands. Underneath the cycladic head was a Hellenistic representation of the human body, reflecting the concept and belief in perfection reflected in Greek art. A man was seen balancing on a hovering cube symbolising man's eternal 'split' between passion and reason followed by a couple of young lovers playfully chasing each other while the god Eros was hovering above them. There followed a very colourful float parade chronicling Greek history from the ancient Minoan civilization to modern times.
Ii tiisra Nourse Line ke jahaaj rahaa jiske naam Ganges rahaa. S.S. Ganges ek 3,475-ton steam waala jahaaj rahaa,jiske Glasgow ke Charles Connell & Company 9 March 1906 me Nourse Line ke khatir launch karis rahaa.
Rollo (Norman: Rou; Auld Norse: Hrólfr; French: Rollon; c. 846 – c. 930 AD) wis a Viking wha became the first ruler o Normandy, a region o Fraunce. He is sometimes cried the 1st Duke o Normandy. Rollo emergit as the ootstaundin personality amang the Norsemen wha haed secured a permanent fuithauld on Frankish soil in the valley o the lawer Seine. Charles the Simple, the keeng o Wast Francia, cedit thaim land atween the mooth o the Seine an wha is nou the ceety o Rouen in exchynge for Rollo greein tae en his brigandage, an provide the Franks wi protection against futur Viking raids.
Aabhijathyam ek 1971 mein bana Malayalam film hain. Yea film India mein A. Vincent ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Adoor Bhasi, Madhu, Thikkurisi Sukumaran Nair, Sharada acting kiye the.
The history of the violin - A quick overview about the history of the violin, including answers to questions such as "Why old master instruments sound so good"
Hello everybody out there using minix- I'm doing a (free) operation system (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like gnu) for 386(486) AT clones.
Commando raids were exceptionally successful, such as in figuring out how German Radar functioned, so as to get the correct dimensions for Chaff to Spoof it, but they were trumpeted as failures so as not to tip off German Military Intelligence about the purpose of the raids.
Say Del Carmen (sigud ya Numancia; English: Municipality of The Charming), sakey baley diad Pilipino ed isla na Siargao so luyag na Surigao ed Baybay.
David R. Lide (ed.), Norman E. Holden in CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 85th Edition, online version. CRC Press. Boca Raton, Florida (2005). Section 11, Table of the Isotopes.
Genius ek 1999 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Rod Daniel ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Trevor Morgan, Emmy Rossum, Charles Fleischer, Yannick Bisson acting kiye the.
The program sometimes does not start until after 7 pm, due largely to CBS' live broadcast of NFL games. At the conclusion of the game, the network will end its coverage right away and air 60 Minutes in its entirety (however, on the West Coast, because the actual end of the live games is much earlier in the afternoon in comparison to the Eastern and Central time zones, 60 Minutes is always able to start at its normal start time of 7 pm Pacific Time, leaving affiliates free to broadcast local news, the CBS Evening News, and other local or syndicated programming leading up to 60 Minutes). The program's success has also led CBS Sports to schedule events leading into 60 Minutes and the rest of the network's primetime lineup, thus (again, except on the West Coast) pre-empting the Sunday editions of the CBS Evening News and affiliates' local newscasts.
She block creoi kereagh as bite jingit ayn dy chur magh sollys eh cainle (kainle ny keartyn). Jiu ta cainleyn jeant ass parafeen er y chooid smoo, agh ta fir elley ry-gheddyn as ad jeant ass kere hellanagh, soy, kereyn lussagh, as geirr. Ta cainleyn gloagh jeant ass ooill veainagh as polymeyr mestit.
'S e baile ann an Siorrachd Inbhir Nis a tha ann an Coit a' Ghartain no Coit Ghartain (Beurla: Boat of Garten). Tha e na laighe faisg air na h-aibhne Spè. Tha pairc ainmeil aig Loch a' Ghartain.
King George V proclaimed the transfer of the capital from Calcutta to Delhi at the climax of the 1911 Imperial Durbar on December 12, 1911. The buildings housing the Viceroy, government and parliament were inaugurated in early 1931.
Culiacán haes several roads (avenues, boulevards, streets, etc.) but some o thir are the main quick connection tae anither pynts tae the ceety.
For many years (beginning in 1978), the CBS Radio/Westwood One coverage of Monday Night Football was anchored by Jack Buck on play-by-play, with former Kansas City Chiefs coach Hank Stram alongside him in the color position. They stayed paired together for nearly every major game covered by the network from 1978 until Super Bowl XIX in January 1985. Since Westwood One now regards NBC Radio's coverage of Monday Night Football as part of its broadcast history Stram and Buck were regarded as temporarily replaced by Don Criqui and Bob Trumpy for the two years NBC Radio held the contract. Buck and Stram returned to the booth at the beginning of the 1987 season and stayed there until the end of the 1995 season, with Super Bowl XXX in January 1996 marking their final game as a broadcast team after sixteen total seasons on radio.
Gerard Ward (Hrsg.): American activities in the Central-Pacific. 1790-1870. A history, geography and ethnography pertaining to American involvement and Americans in the pacific taken from contemporary newspapers. Band 3: Gaferut to Kwajalein. Gregg, Ridgewood NJ 1967.
One of the world's most popular entertainers, Turner has been called the most successful female rock artist and was named "one of the greatest singers of all time" by Rolling Stone. Her combined album and single sales total approximately 180 million copies worldwide. She has sold more concert tickets than any other solo music performer in history. She is known for her energetic stage presence, powerful vocals, career longevity, and widespread appeal. In 2008, Turner left semi-retirement to embark on her Tina!: 50th Anniversary Tour. Turner's tour became one of the highest selling ticketed shows of 2008–2009. Turner was born a Baptist, but converted to Buddhism and credits the spiritual chants with giving her the strength that she needed to get through the rough times. Rolling Stone ranked her at 63 on their 100 greatest artists of all time and considers her the "Queen of Rock and Roll".
(i) demand and supply side initiatives (by Robert Pepper). He brought into debate the economic concept of demand and supply applied to Imicungire n'Imiyoborere ya Interineti. On the demand side, there were interesting proposals, such as the need for educating trough capacity-building Internet users, the ability of people controlling their web ID (part of educating the usage in Internet), local content in local languages (enforcing local community) and improving public policies (but not over regulating, such as prohibiting or limiting Kugira ubushobozi bwo kugera ku makuru wifuza (Access) to VoIP, which can suppress the demand). On the supply side, there were the common concern of extending Internet users/Kugira ubushobozi bwo kugera ku makuru wifuza (Access), but also considering “the opportunities created by the release of spectrum through the switch to digital broadcasting were highlighted. Some speakers suggested that such spectrum could be used to support new broadband networks and support new investment and innovative services, while Ibindis held the view that this would not be a sustainable solution.”
The two visit Dorinda (Nichelle Nichols), who runs Gator's stable of prostitutes. Truck and Jerry wait for Gator to visit, and chase him, but Gator escapes. A tip from Truck's friend Duke (Scatman Crothers) allows them to locate Gator again, and kill Gator when he attempts to shoot Truck.
Tina Turner (oruko abiso Anna Mae Bullock; ojoibi ni November 26, 1939) je akorin ati osere ara Amerika ti ise re gba ju adota odun lo. O gba opolopo ebun, be si ni ise re ninu iru orin rock ti je ki awon kan o pe ni "Iyaafin Rock 'n' Roll (Queen of Rock 'n' Roll)". Turner bere ise orin pelu oko re Ike Turner gege bi omo egbe olorin Ike & Tina Turner Revue. Won ja si rere pelu orin bi "River Deep, Mountain High" ati "Proud Mary". With the publication of her autobiography I, Tina (1986), Turner revealed severe instances of spousal abuse against her by Ike Turner prior to their 1976 split and subsequent 1978 divorce. After virtually disappearing from the music scene for several years following her divorce from Ike Turner, she rebuilt her career, launching a string of hits beginning in 1983 with the single "Let's Stay Together" and the 1984 release of her fifth solo album Private Dancer.
An inclusive democracy is inconceivable unless it extends to the broader social realm to embrace the workplace, the household, the educational institution and indeed any economic or cultural institution, which constitutes an element of this realm. The equal distribution of power in these institutions and self-management are secured through the creation of assemblies of the people involved in each place of work or education (workers' assemblies, student and teachers' assemblies respectively) who make all important decisions about the functioning of these places, within the framework of the decisions taken by citizens' demotic assemblies as regards the general aims of production, education and culture respectively. The assemblies are federated at the regional and confederal levels so that the confederal assemblies of workers, teachers, students and so on could be involved in a process of constant interaction with the citizens' confederal assemblies to define society's "general interest".
Lindebro MC, Poellinger L, Whitelaw ML (1995). "Protein-protein interaction via PAS domains: role of the PAS domain in positive and negative regulation of the bHLH/PAS dioxin receptor-Arnt transcription factor complex.". EMBO J. 14 (14): 3528–39. PMC 394421. PMID 7628454.
In keeping with customary representation of numerals using Arabic numerals, binary numbers are commonly written using the symbols 0 dan 1. When written, binary numerals are often subscripted, prefixed or suffixed in order to indicate their base, or radix. The following notations are equivalent:
An 5es kansblydhen o spys a amser ow talleth an 1sa a vis Genver 401 hag ow tiwedh an 31ns a vis Kevardhu 500. Yma lies tus owth usya an lavar ma gans an keth styryans ha'n blydhynyow 400, h.y. an prys a-dhia 400 bys 499.
Bluna a saft drink awned bi the firm Mineralbrunnen Überkingen-Teinach AG (Kenmerk-richts for Wasteurope an naur by aest europaen kintras) syne Januar 1994. The warld kenmerk-richts for afri-cola haes been hauden bi Mineralbrunnen AG syne 1999.
Thomson, Harry C. ; Mayo, Lida. The Ordnance Department: Procurement and Supply. (англ.) — Washington, D.C.: U.S. Dept. of the Army, Office of the Chief of Military History, 1960. — 504 p.
Lake Danao is the smaller of the two lakes located in the Balinsasayao Twin Lakes Natural Park in the southern part of Negros Oriental in the Philippines; the other being Lake Balinsasayao. The lakes and its surrounding were designated as a protected area by Proclamation No. 414 on 21 November 2000 categorized as a Natural Park covering about 8,016 hectares (19,810 acres). The lake itself has about 28 hectares (69 acres) surface area.
Besemer, S. (2014) The impact of timing and frequency of parental criminal behaviour and risk factors on offspring offending. Psychology, Crime and Law, 20, 78-99.
.com/cuntent/e573577824559531/ Artigo de Dressler, Whitten i Williams: Phylogenetic relationships of Scaphyglottis and related genera based on nrDNA ITS sequence data
Saunt Justin, an aa kent as Justin Mairtyr (100–165), wis an early Christian apologist, an is regairdit as the foremaist interpreter o the theory o the Logos in the 2nt century. He wis mairtyred, alangside some o his students, an is considered a saunt bi the Roman Catholic Kirk, the Anglican Kirk, an the Eastren Orthodox Kirk.
Jamaican Creole: An Historical Introduction to Jamaican Creole by R. B. Le Page and Four Jamaican Creole Texts with Introduction, Phonemic, Transcriptions and Glosses by David de Camp
De Nettelkrûper hat in opfallend mûtske, dat by it mantsje swart is en by it wyfke brún. Hy wurdt dêrom ek wol Swartkop (=atricapilla) neamd. De kleur fan it kleed is fierder griis: ûnder wat ljochter as boppe. De snaffel is griiseftich.
Szakolczai, A. 2009. Liminality and Experience: Structuring Transitory Situations and Transformative Events. International Political Anthropology 2(1):141-172.
Daniel, R.R. (1992), "Space Science in India", Indian Journal of History of Science, 27 (4): 485-499, New Delhi: Indian National Science Academy.
Geography, me ek des ek political division hae. Ii jaada kar ke ek ajaad jagah rahe hae. Ii sabd ke matalab state, nation aur government bhi rahe sake hae. Jaise ke United States of America ek des hae.
"Communication Strategy for the Introduction of Antiretroviral Therapy in Botswana". In The Science and Culture Series: Nuclear War and Planetary Emergencies . A Zichichi (ed). World Scientific Press (2001)
Lo Bue, Erberto. 1994. "A Case of Mistaken Identity: Ma-gcig Labs-sgron and Ma-gcig Zha ma." In Tibetan Studies: Proceedings of the 6th Seminar of International Association of Tibetan Studies, pp. 481–490. Per Kvaerne, ed. Oslo: The Institute for Comparative Research in Human Culture.
RISCOS Ltd. (also referred to as ROL) was a limited company engaged in computer software and IT consulting. It licensed the rights to continue the development of RISC OS 4 and to distribute it for desktop machines (as an upgrade or for new machines) from Element 14 and subsequently Pace Micro Technology. Company founders include developers who formerly worked within Acorn's dealership network. It was established as a nonprofit company. On or before 4 March 2013 3QD Developments acquired RISCOS Ltd's flavour of RISC OS. RISCOS Ltd was dissolved on 14 May 2013.
On January 16, 2008 Woodruff released his sophomore album, Burnin’ Ocean under Ruffwood Records. This album was one of the Top 10 Best Reggae Albums in 2008 on the Apple iTunes charts; notable tracks include “Burnin’ Ocean”, “So Good” and “We Get High”.
Chinese Take Away ek 2006 mein bana German film hain. Yea film Germany mein Felix Binder ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Marleen Lohse, Nick Dong-Sik, Tao Li Ma, Victoria Trauttmansdorff acting kiye the.
Brazilian Portuguese haes a great nummer o allophones o /ʁ/ such as [χ], [h], [ɦ], [x], [ɣ], [ɹ] an [r], the latter three anes can be uised anly in certain contexts ([ɣ] an [r] as 'rr'; [ɹ] in the syllable coda, as an allophone o /ɾ/ accordin tae the European Portuguese norm an /ʁ/ accordin tae the Brazilian Portuguese norm). Uisually at least twa o them are present in a single dialect, such as Rio de Janeiro's [ʁ], [χ], [ɦ] an, for a few speakers, [ɣ].
Hello. To facilitate steward granting of bot access, I suggest implementing the standard bot policy on this wiki. In particular, this policy allows stewards to automatically flag known interlanguage linking bots (if this page says that is acceptable), which form the vast majority of such requests. The policy also enables global bots on this wiki (if this page says that is acceptable), which are trusted bots that will be given bot access on every wiki that allows global bots.
On January 24, 1982, CBS Sports broadcast the highest rated (49.1/73) Super Bowl of all time as the San Francisco 49ers, led by quarterback Joe Montana, defeated the Cincinnati Bengals, 26–21. Summerall and Madden called their first Super Bowl together as they went on to be one of the most popular NFL announce teams ever. During the Super Bowl XVI telecast, the telestrator made its major network debut. CBS introduced it as the "CBS Chalkboard" during their sports coverage. Madden utilized the device effectively to diagram football plays on the viewers' television screens. The telestrator is generally credited with popularizing the use of "telestration" during sports commentary.
Nicolaus Copernicus (Niklas Koppernigk, Polish bhasa me: Mikołaj Kopernik, 19 February 1473 – 24 May 1543) ek astronomer rahaa. Log Copernicus ke uske suraj aur dunia ke baare me bichar khatir jaanat rahin. Uske bicher rahaa ki dunia, suraj ke right round jaawe hae, jiske baare me uu uu ek book, De revolutionibus orbium coelestium (On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres) me likhis rahaa.
Ii-Acids nee-bases ziichemicals ezixhaphakileyo. Ii-Acids zikhupha H+ i-ions xa zisemanzini, zikhuphe nee-bases OH− ions xa zisemanzini. Ii-Acids zinga-react with bases. The H+ ion is taken from the acid by the base. This makes water, H2O. A salt is also made when an acid and a base react together. An example would be reacting hydrochloric acid (HCl) and sodium hydroxide (NaOH). Hydrochloric acid releases H+ and Cl- ions in water. The base releases Na+ and OH- ions. The H+ and the OH- react to make water. There is a solution of sodium chloride (NaCl) left. Sodium chloride is a salt.
The Mystery of Edwin Drood (Kernowek:An Kevrin a Edwin Drood) yw an romans finek gans Charles Dickens mes didheu yw. Dyllys veu kynsa rannow an lyver ma yn 1870.
Hispanic and Latino New Yorkers are residents of the state of New York who are of Hispanic or Latino ancestry. As of 2013, Hispanics and Latinos of any race were 18.4% of the state's population.
Levi-Xastr / Leviticus 16 : 11 - Aplea ani kuttumbachea patkam khatir boil bhettoita tedna, Aaron / Thus shall Aaron offer his bull for the purification offering, to make atonement for himself and for his family. When he has slaughtered it,
In 1894, the South Orange, Maplewood, and Hilton school districts were consolidated and became the South Orange and Maplewood School District, with borders essentially identical to those which presently exist. The district remained unified even after Maplewood and South Orange became separately incorporated as municipalities, although there was considerable pressure to split as early as 1904.
Major-General Lancelot Edgar Connop Mervyn Perowne CBE (11 June 1902 – 24 March 1982) was a British Army officer who commanded 17th Gurkha Division.
Kule pattern, inani elilandelayo sisiphumo senani elidluleyo eliphindaphindwe ngo 2. Ngokomthetho Basically a mathematical pattern is a sequence of numbers which follows one rule.
Originally 75 locomotives were ordered, but the order was reduced to 25 locomotives and more locomotives of the French Class 1100 locomotives were ordered instead.
Singularities in Collapsing Stars and Expanding Universes with Dennis William Sciama, 1969 Comments on Astrophysics and Space Physics Vol 1 #1
Rish ny 1920yn, va'n BBC, kied ghreasane creeley eddyr-ashoonagh y theihll, currit er bun. Ren yn RU caggey rish y Ghermaan Natseeagh myr nane jeh cummaghtyn Cochaarjagh y Nah Chaggey Dowanagh as hug eh cooney da'n theihll heear-chaggeeagh. By chyndagh rish y Nah Chaggey Dowanagh va'n Reeriaght Unnaneysit jeeyllit rere argidys. Hug eeasaghtyn costallagh veih'n Chanadey as veih ny Steatyn Unnaneysit cooney da'n RU as eh geearree slaanaghey.
Santo Domingo Teojomulco is a toun an municipality in Oaxaca in sooth-wastren Mexico. The municipality covers a aurie o km². It is pairt o the Sola de Vega Destrict in the Sierra Sur Region.
Two years later, Rozelle would build on this success as the NFL began a four-year experiment of playing on Monday night, scheduling one game in prime time on CBS during the 1966 and 1967 seasons, and two contests during each of the next two years. NBC followed suit in 1968 and 1969 with games involving AFL teams.
Pagsasao are considered unclassified either because, for one reason or another, little effort has been made to compare them with other pagsasao, or, more commonly, because they are too poorly documented to permit reliable classification. Most such pagsasao are extinct and most likely will never be known well enough to classify.
Keep Chico Weird is an annual event to honor the weird of Chico and Butte County, who help foster an environment of tolerance and creativity. CN&R produces a Keep Chico Weird Art Show and a Keep Chico Weird Talent Show, that highlights a wide range of artists and art, including sword swallowers, mimes, spelling-bee champs, organ grinders, etc.
Across the Tracks ek 1990 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Sandy Tung ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Ricky Schroder, Brad Pitt, Carrie Snodgress, David Anthony Marshall acting kiye the.
A GNU FDL work can quickly be encumbered because a new, different, title must be given and a list of previous titles must be kept. This could lead to the situation where there are a whole series of title pages, and dedications, in each and every copy of the book if it has a long lineage. These pages cannot ever be removed, at least not until the work enters the public domain after copyright expires.
Buse, Jasper (1995). Cook Islands Maori dictionary with English-Cook Islands Maori finderlist. Rarotonga, Cook Islands : Ministry of Education, Government of the Cook Islands ; London : School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London ; Suva, Fiji : Institute of Pacific Studies, University of the South Pacific ; [Auckland] : Centre for Pacific Studies, University of Auckland ; Canberra, ACT : Pacific Linguistics, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University.
Familiar Grounds ek 2011 mein bana French film hain. Yea film Canada mein Stéphane Lafleur ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Francis La Haye, Fanny Mallette, Michel Daigle, Sylvain Marcel acting kiye the.
During Game 5 of the 1981 NBA Finals, CBS posted an old photo of Bill Russell, who was on the announcing team with Gary Bender and Rick Barry, on the 1956 Olympic team. Bender asked Barry, "Who do you think that is in the picture?" Barry answered: Plantilla:Cquote Barry's comments were considered to be racially insensitive and CBS did not renew Barry's contract for the subsequent season. Russell stayed on with new play-by-play announcer Dick Stockton for two seasons before giving way to former Celtics teammate Tom Heinsohn for the 1983–84 season.
The earliest written account of the city is the 10th-century Laguna Copperplate Inscription which describes a context of an Indianised kingdom maintaining diplomatic relations with the Kingdom of Medang. The city was invaded by Brunei's Sultan Bolkiah and was already Islamized by the 15th century when the Spanish Conquistadors first arrived. Manila eventually became the center of Spanish activity in the Far East and one end of the Manila-Acapulco Galleon trade route linking Latin America and Asia. The city would eventually be given the moniker of the "Pearl of the Orient", as a result of its central location in the vital Pacific sea trade routes. Several Chinese insurrections, local revolts, a British Occupation and a Sepoy mutiny also occurred shortly thereafter. Manila also saw the rise of the Philippine Revolution which was followed by the arrival of the Americans who made contributions to the city's urban planning and development only to have most of those improvements lost in the devastation of World War II. Since then the city has been rebuilt.
Despite Cunningham's usage of the term, the origins of the name wiki in commerce can be traced to the first U.S. Trademark on the name "wiki", which was filed a year before Ward Cunningham started developing WikiWikiWeb in 1994 by a company called WikiDigs in Van Nuys, California on 12 Julaị 1993. The original trademark for "wiki" was used to describe a form of non-metal caps used for collecting and trading. However, the mark became abandoned by Disemba 1994 because of a failure to use the mark in commerce, opening the way to widespread adoption of the term in the computer industry.
CBS debuted a new graphics package starting with their coverage of Super Bowl XLVII. Beginning with the 2013 season, they were used for all CBS games. Originally optimized for a 4:3 display, the elements are now optimized for a 16:9 display with #10 AFD being enabled.
Louise Riotte, Carrots Love Tomatoes: Secrets of Companion Planting for Successful Gardening, 1998, Storey Publishing, Google'i raamatu veebiversioon (vaadatud 11.05.2014) (inglise keeles)
In November 2015, Gifford's family revealed that he had suffered from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). The family said, "After losing our beloved husband and father, Frank Gifford, we as a family made the difficult decision to have his brain studied in hopes of contributing to the advancement of medical research concerning the link between football and traumatic brain injury ... We decided to disclose our loved one's condition to honor Frank's legacy of promoting player safety dating back to his involvement in the formation of the NFL Players Association in the 1950s."
Monypenny, Phillip, and Guy Garrison (1966). The Library Functions of the States [i.e. of the U.S.A.]: Commentary on the Survey of Library Functions of the States, [under the auspices of the] Survey and Standard Committee [of the] American Association of State Libraries. Chicago, Ill.: American Library Association. xiii, 178 p.
1980 (MCMLXXX) wis a leap year stairtin on Tysday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter FE), the 1980t year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 980t year o the 2nt millennium, the 80t year o the 20t century, an the 1st year o the 1980s decade.
1959 (MCMLIX) wis a common year stairtin on Fuirsday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter D), the 1959t year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 959t year o the 2nt millennium, the 59t year o the 20t century, an the 10t an last year o the 1950s decade.
This thesis is prominent in This Too a Philosophy of History for the Formation of Humanity (1774) and Ideas on the Philosophy of the History of Mankind (1784–91).
The Meuse rises on the Langres Plateau in France from where it flows northwards past Sedan (the head of navigation) and Charleville-Mézières into Belgium. At Namur it is joined by the River Sambre. Beyond Namur the Meuse winds eastwards, skirting the Ardennes, and passes Liège before turning north. The river then forms part of the Belgian-Dutch border, except that at Maastricht the border lies further to the west. In the Netherlands it continues northwards past Venlo, then turns towards the west, merging with the Rhine into an extensive delta before finally flowing into the North Sea via the Nieuwe Waterweg and the Hollands Diep. The river divides near Heusden into the Afgedamde Maas on the right and the Bergse Maas on the left.
Total Chaos ek 2014 mein bana Hindi, Panjabi, English film hain. Yea film India mein Eeshwar Nivas ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Ali Zafar, Yami Gautam, Anupam Kher, Kiron Kher acting kiye the.
Electric Charges, Polarization, Electric Force, Coulomb's Law Walter Lewin, 8.02 Electricity and Magnetism, Spring 2002: Lecture 1 (video). MIT OpenCourseWare. License: Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike.
Nakuru is the fowert-lairgest ceety in Kenyae, the caipital o Nakuru Coonty an umwhile caipital o the Rift Valley Province. It haes 307,990 indwallers, makkin it the lairgest urban centre in the Kenyan mid-wast wi Eldoret in Uasin Gishu follaein closely behind. Nakuru lies aboot 1,850 m abuin sea level.
Currently 3.25% of the MediaWiki messages and 3.88% of the messages of the extensions used by the Wikimedia Foundation projects have been localised. Please help us help your language by localising at Betawiki. This is the recent localisation activity for your language. Thanks, GerardM 13:54, 8 июня 2008 (UTC)
Neptune is similar in composeetion tae Uranus, an baith hae composeetions which differ frae those o the lairger gas giants, Jupiter, an Saturn. Neptune's atmosphere, while similar tae Jupiter's an Saturn's in that it is componed primarily o hydrogen an helium, alang wi traces o hydrocarbons an possibly nitrogen, contains a heicher proportion o "ices" such as watter, ammonia, an methane. Astronomers sometimes categorise Uranus an Neptune as "ice giants" in order tae emphasise these distinctions. The interior o Neptune, lik that o Uranus, is primarily componed o ices an rock. It is possible that the cor has a solit surface, but the temperatur would be thoosands o degrees an the atmospheric pressur crushin. Traces o methane in the ootermaist regions in pairt accoont for the planet's blue appearance.
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Natural History of the Mammalia of India and Ceylon, by Robert A. Sterndale.Deskrizzjoni ta' 4 sottospeċijiet tal-Liebru tad-deżert Lepus tibetanus .
Macompound akawandisa tongoti unongowawana every corner.Macompounds ehydrogen anoti mvura , acids , hydroxides , organic compounds.As u may know hydrogen, is part of ou were lives.It is available in foods as hydrocompounds.Aya tomati , mahydrocarbons.Chese chikafu chatinodya chinocontainer mahydrocarbons.Hydrogen common acids are nitric acid , hydrochloric acid ,sulphuric, acid.
The incubation period is about 12 days. Both male and female feed the young. Mortality of eggs and chicks is high due to predation by rodents, cats, crow-pheasants, lizards and other predators. The young birds fledge in about 14 days. The female alone incubates according to some sources, while others suggest that both sexes incubate; however, both parents take part in feeding and sanitation.
The Bases of Indian Culture: Commemoration Volume of Swami Abhedananda, by Amiya Kumer Mazumder, Prajnanananda. Published by Ramakrishna Vedanta Math, 1971.
Hoi, the most often used MediaWiki messages (less than 25% of all MediaWiki messages) are the most visible messages. They help our readers and editors the most. We are aiming to get these messages localised for as many languages as possible by the end of the year. Please help us and yourself and localise these messages. Thanks, GerardM 10:21, 17 ноября 2008 (UTC)
One way of finding a wiki on a specific subject is to follow the wiki-node network from wiki to wiki; another is to take a Wiki "bus tour", for example: Àtụ:Srlink. Domain names containing "wiki" are growing in popularity to support specific niches.
In 1992 inlāðode man hine tō Rio de Janeiro, Brazil for the United Nations' international conference on environment and development, then he became a regular consultant the UN and the World Bank.
Alberto Ibargüen (class of 1962), publisher; first Hispanic publisher of The Miami Herald, Pulitzer Prize winner for coverage of the Elián González story.
Airchaeological excavations in Stenungsund in 2006 discovered a steid o Iron Age burials (1st - 3rd century AD), notable for the unuisual presence o Roman ceramic airtefacts.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30
(1) democratic planning, which involves a feedback process between workplace assemblies, demotic assemblies and the confederal assembly, and
Can Plastic Films Damage My Stamps? Translated from an article by Ib Krarup Rasmussen published in Dansk Filatelistisk Tidsskrift Number 4, 2008.
Kimikal kompoun (ar jos kompoun ef yuuz ina di kantex a kimischri) a wah entiti we kansis a tuu ar muo atom, akliis tuu frah difrah eliment, we hasosiet vaya kimikal ban.
All users are welcome to participate, whether you are active on Commons, Wikipedia, other Wikimedia project -- or any site that uses content from our free media repository.
Schyrleus also included a map of the Moon in Oculus Enoch et Eliae. It was the first depiction of the Moon as seen in an inverting telescope (and thus the Moon itself is inverted in the illustration, with the South Pole at the top). The crater Tycho, for example, was depicted on lunar maps as early as 1645, when Schyrleus depicted the bright ray system. His map, however, did not come into standard use, as it was superseded by those made by Hevelius and the Jesuits Giovanni Battista Riccioli and Francesco Maria Grimaldi (1650–1651). In 1647, Schyrleus published a lunar chart with a diameter of 19 cm.[5]
The second team consists of Dave Sims on play-by-play with Hall of Fame defensive back Rod Woodson as analyst. Sims, who worked alongside Malone in 2013, traded places with McCarthy for 2014. Woodson joined the NFL broadcasts in 2013 after a brief stint calling college football games for the network.
The theme music for The NFL on Westwood One from 2003 until the end of the 2012 season was "Posthumus Zone" by E.S. Posthumus, the same theme music used for the NFL on CBS television coverage (Westwood One's sports coverage had always used the appropriate CBS television theme for their sport where applicable). For the 2013 season, a new radio-specific score was commissioned by the network.
United States dollar, nai to American dollar, United States of America ke official currency hae. Likhe ke time American dollar ke ($) symbol ke kaam me laae ke likha jaawe hae. Dollar ke USD (U.S. Dollar) ke naam se bhi jaana jaawe hae.
In 2004, the Zürich venue became a problem for the organisers. Originally, the Hardturm stadium was to be renovated and used as the city's venue, but legal challenges delayed the plan to a point that would not have allowed the ground to be used in 2008. This created a problem, as the agreement between UEFA and the organizers stipulated that four venues would be used in each country. The problem was solved when the organizers proposed renovating Letzigrund instead; UEFA approved the revised plan in January 2005. The Letzigrund stadium hosted its first football match on 23 September 2007.[5]
T'ad geddyn ensymeyn ass cardoon dys jannoo caashey feill-haghnagh. Ta caashey tradishoonagh ny Portiugal jeant jeh'n vinjey shoh ynrican, myr sampleyr, Queijo de Nisa.
Four Songs, for mezzo-soprano, flute, harp and guitar (1954, arrangement of Quatre chants russes Nos. 1 & 4; Three Tales for Children Nos. 1 & 2)
Relief rain usually occurs along coastal areas where a line of hills runs along the coast. When wet onshore wind from the sea meets a mountain, hill or any other sort of barrier, it is forced to rise along the slope and cools. When the air temperature falls to its dew point, water vapour condenses to form clouds. When the clouds can no longer hold the water droplets, relief rain begins to fall on the windward slope of the mountain. On the leeward slope, air sinks, it is warmed and further dried by compression. Therefore, the leeward slope is known as rain shadow. Moist winds blow in from the sea and are forced to rise over the land. The air cools and the water vapour condenses, forming rain drops. Relief rain is also a very dense and cold mixture of precipitation.
Charlie Hebdo (French pronunciation: [ʃaʁli ɛbdo]; French for Weekly Charlie) is a French satirical weekly newspaper, featurin cartuins, reports, polemics, an jokes.
Where can I find more information and ask questions? Editors on en:wp have created a great page with all the necessary information for editors and there is also an FAQ for this deployment. It'd be great if you could bring this to this wiki if that has not already happened. Please ask questions you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.
Whether a fetus has the ability to feel pain and to suffer is part of the abortion debate. For example, in the USA legislation has been proposed by pro-life advocates that abortion providers should be required to tell a woman that the fetus may feel pain during the abortion procedure, and require her to accept or decline anesthesia for the fetus.
Liu Xiang wins gold in the 110 m hurdles, equalling Colin Jackson's 1993 world record time of 12.91 seconds. This was China's first ever gold in men's track and field.
Subtracting a positive nombor is equivalent to adding a negative nombor of equal absolute value; computers typically use two's complement notation to represent negative values. This notation eliminates the need for a separate "subtract" operation. Using two's complement notation subtraction can be summarized by the following formula:
1908-1909, 1909-1910, 1910-1911, 1913-1914, 1914-1915, 1915-1916, 1917-1918, 1922-1923, 1923-1924, 1924-1925, 1925-1926, 1928-1929, 1930-1931, 1937-1938, 1948-1949, 1954-1955, 1955-1956, 1957-1958
Eugene W. Hickok, Er waar U.S. Deputy Secretary of Education vun 2004-2005, unn eb sell waar er Secretary of Education fer Pennsilfaani vun 1995 bis 2001.
G. Stone: Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, s. 172
On May 12 2005, Nasrat Parsa’s body was flown back to Germany for burial. The grief-stricken bereaved family members and fans around the world individually held services to honor the late singer. Notably, the funeral held at Sayed Jamaladen Masjid by Habib Qaderi on May 15, 2005 in Orange, USA, drew thousands of sorrowful fans. Other cities, in the USA, Canada, Europe, Australia, and Afghanistan also held similar mourning sessions.
By the late 1980s, CBS was telecasting 15 or 16 regular season games per year. In 1989 alone, only 13 of the 24 playoff games (Games 1–3, specifically) in Round 1 aired on TBS or CBS (for example, none of the four games from the Seattle–Houston first round series appeared on national television). Notably, Game 5 of the 1989 playoff series between the Chicago Bulls and Cleveland Cavaliers (featuring Michael Jordan's now famous game winning, last second shot over Craig Ehlo) was not nationally televised. CBS affiliates in Virginia elected to show the first game of a second round series between Seattle and the Lakers.
Offices in classical antiquity were often part of a palace complex or a large temple. The High Middle Ages (1000–1300) saw the rise of the medieval chancery, which was usually the place where most government letters were written and where laws were copied in the administration of a kingdom. With the growth of large, complex organizations in the 18th century, the first purpose-built office spaces were constructed. As the Industrial Revolution intensified in the 18th and 19th centuries, the industries of banking, rail, insurance, retail, petroleum, and telegraphy dramatically grew, and a large number of clerks were needed, and as a result more office space was required to house these activities. The time and motion study, pioneered in manufacturing by F. W. Taylor led to the “Modern Efficiency Desk” with a flat top and drawers below, designed to allow managers an easy view of the workers. However, by the midpoint of the 20th century, it became apparent that an efficient office required discretion in the control of privacy, and gradually the cubicle system evolved.
The Berliner-Joyce OJ was an American biplane observation floatplane developed by the Berliner-Joyce Aircraft for the United States Navy during the early 1930s.
Toledo-Pereyra, L H (2001). "Discovery in surgical investigation: the essence of Charles Brenton Huggins". Journal of investigative surgery : the official journal of the Academy of Surgical Research 14 (5): 251–2. PMID 11700917.
Consultations held in Jeneve last Gicurasi 23, 2007 were open to all stakeholders. This consultation was part of a cluster of related events of the WSIS that took place last 15-25 of Gicurasi 2007. An Itsindangishwanama was also facilitated for Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti (IGF) meeting in Riyo do Janeyiro, Burezili (Brazil). Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti (IGF) open Consultations held last 3 September 2007 was held in Jeneve.
The first edition of ISO 3166 was published in 1974, which included only alphabetic country codes. The second edition, published in 1981, also included numeric country codes, with the third and fourth editions published in 1988 and 1993 respectively. The fifth edition, published between 1997 and 1999, was expanded into three parts to include codes for subdivisions and former countries.
Baywatch ek 1989–2001 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein N/A ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein David Hasselhoff, Jeremy Jackson, Michael Newman, Pamela Anderson acting kiye the.
Also in 2004, X PRIZE chose Page as a trustee of their board and he was elected to the National Academy of Engineering. In 2005, Brin and Page were elected Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Leaves of some holly species are used by some cultures to make daily tea. These species are Yerba mate (I. paraguariensis), Ilex guayusa, Kuding (Ilex kaushue), Yaupon (I. vomitoria) and others. Leaves of other species, such as gallberry (I. glabra) are bitter and emetic. In general little is known about inter-species variation in constituents or toxicity of hollies.
Last year ke winner Labasa rahaa. Tournament coordinator Mohammed Sareem rahaa. Tournament ke April 9-13 ke khela gais rahaa. Winner ke $1000 aur trophy aur runner-up ke $500 aur trophy mila.
IALI NGO has been authorized by terminologist Muwanga Charles to post this article from his Luganda scientific terminology works to Luganda Wikipedia for free public consumption.
Romkarank / Romans 3 : 25 - Bhavarth dhôrtoleam khatir Devan Jezuk Aplem rogot varoun bhogsonnem divpachi boli zaunk nemla: oxem korun Tannem Aplê doiallaiechem nitivontponn porgôtt kelem, poilê svater adlea kallar kellea patkam pasot, / whom God set forth as an expiation, through faith, by his blood, to prove his righteousness because of the forgiveness of sins previously committed,
In the 2001 census, 167,877 fowk frae Lovech province identifee'd thairsels as belangin tae ane o the follaein ethnic groups (wi percentage o total population):
Page announced on his Google+ profile in May 2013 that his right vocal cord is paralyzed from a cold that he contracted the previous summer, while his left cord was paralyzed in 1999. Page explained that he has been suffering from a vocal cord issue for 14 years, and, as of his May 2013 post, doctors were still unable to identify the exact cause of the problem. The Google+ post also revealed that Page had donated a considerable sum of money to a vocal-cord nerve-function research program at the Voice Health Institute in Boston, U.S. The program, at Massachusetts General Hospital, is led by Steven Zeitels, the Eugene B. Casey Professor of Laryngeal Surgery. An anonymous source stated that the donation exceeded $20 million.
Vedanta Philosophy; Three Lectures on Spiritual Unfoldment: Three Lectures on Spiritual Unfoldment, by Swami Abhedananda. Published by The Vedanta Society, 1901.
As with Fox's coverage, the network's stations are divided into different groups based on the most popular or closest team to that market or, if that does not apply, based on the allure of a particular game. Each football game is rated as an "A", "B", or "C" game, with "A" games likely being televised nationally and "C" games only in the two teams' home television markets. Significantly more behind-the-scenes resources are dedicated to "A" game coverage.
The Goa liberation movement was a movement which sought to end Portuguese colonial rule in Goa, India. The movement built on the small scale revolts and uprisings of the 19th century, and grew powerful during the period 1940-1961. The movement was conducted both inside and outside Goa, and was characterised by a range of tactics including nonviolent demonstrations, revolutionary methods and diplomatic efforts. However, Portuguese control of its Indian colonies ended only when India invaded Goa in 1961 and incorporated the territories into the Indian Union.
Beryllium occurs in the earth's crust at a concentration of two to six parts per million (ppm), much of which is in soils, where it has a concentration of six ppm. Beryllium is one of the rarest elements in seawater, even rarer than elements such as scandium, with a concentration of 0.2 parts per trillion. However, in freshwater, beryllium is somewhat more common, with a concentration of 0.1 parts per billion.
This March, we’re organizing an Inspire Campaign to encourage and support new ideas for improving gender diversity on Wikimedia projects. Less than 20% of Wikimedia contributors are women, and many important topics are still missing in our content. We invite all Wikimedians to participate. If you have an idea that could help address this problem, please get involved today! The campaign runs until March 31.
Ta ronney shirveishyn yn RU bishaghey, ansherbee, as nish t'eh freggyrtagh son 73% LTS ny çheerey. Ta'n ronney shirveishyn jannoo kioneys er shirveishyn argidoil, ayns bancaght as urryssaght er lheh. Ta Lunnin ny ynnyd argidoil smoo er y theihll lesh Boorse Lunnin, Boorse Lunnin ry hoi Conaantyn ry-heet Argidoil as Reihyn Eddyr-ashoonagh (LIFFE), as y margey urryssagh Lloyd's of London bunnit ayns Ard-valley Lunnin. Ta Lunnin ny ynnyd scanshoil ry hoi dellal eddyr-ashoonagh as cochionneeaght as t'eh ny valley toshee er tree "ynnydyn anney" ry hoi y tarmaynys dowanagh (myrane lesh York Noa as Tokyo). Ta'n co-ghlooaghey banglaneyn bancyn joarree smoo er y theihll ayn. 'Sy yeihaght jerrinagh, ta ynnyd argidoil trughanagh gaase ayns ny Lhonglannyn, lesh HSBC as Barclays Bank aahoiaghey ny h-ard-offishyn ayns shen. Ta mooarane colughtyn eddyr-ashoonagh nagh vel bunnit 'syn RU son y chooid smoo, lheid as Citigroup, aahoiaghey ny kione-cherrooyn Oarpagh gys Lunnin. Ta nane jeh ny h-ynnydyn argidoil smoo ny h-Oarpey 'sy phreeu-valley Albinagh, Doon Edin as ta kione-cherroo yn Royal Bank of Scotland Group, nane jeh ny bancyn smoo 'sy dowan, soit ayn.
અણ્ણા હઝારે appealed to the government of Maharashtra to bring in a law whereby prohibition would come into force in a village if 25% of the women in the village demanded it. In July 2009, the state government issued a government resolution amending the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949. As per the amendments, if at least 25% of women voters demand liquor prohibition through a written application to the state excise department, voting should be conducted through a secret ballot. If 50% of the voters vote against the sale of liquor, prohibition should be imposed in the village and the sale of liquor should be stopped. Similar action can be taken at the ward level in municipal areas. Thereafter, another circular was issued, making it mandatory to get the sanction of the Gram Sabha for issuing new permits for sale of liquor. In some instances, when women agitated against the sale of liquor, cases were filed against them. અણ્ણા took up the issue again and in August 2009 the government issued another circular that sought withdrawal of cases against women who sought prohibition of liquor in their villages.
In December 2008, it was reported that the NFL was considering leaving Westwood One for a rival service (ESPN Radio, Sports USA, and Sporting News Radio being the contenders), or possibly splitting rights for prime-time, Thanksgiving, and postseason games between two or more networks. However, on March 12, 2009 it was announced that Westwood One had signed a two-year extension with the NFL. The league then announced on December 22, 2010 that Westwood One's contract has been extended through 2014.The two sides have since agreed to an extension through the 2017 season.
Since the last general election in 2009, the anti-corruption movement by Anna Hazare, and other similar moves by Baba Ramdev and Arvind Kejriwal, have gathered momentum and political interest. Kejriwal went on to form a separate political party of Aam Aadmi Party in November 2012. The 2012 presidential election, resulted in Pranab Mukherjee of Indian National Congress becoming the President. The Telangana movement for a separate Telangana state from Andhra Pradesh also continued with agitations, including the initial central government decision to grant statehood and then rescind it after counter-protests. Andhra politics was further shaken following death of its chief minister, Y. S. R. Reddy. His son, Y. S. Jaganmohan Reddy, then broke from the INC and founded the YSR Congress taking several politicians with him.
Moonchild (Filia Lunae) Infinite Dreams (Infinia Somnia)Can I Play With Madness (Possumne Ludere Cum follia)The Evil That Men Do (Mala Quae Homines Faciunt)Seventh Son Of A Seventh Son (Septimus FiliusSeptimi Filii)The Prophecy (Vaticium)The Clairvoyat (Vates)Only The Good Die Young (Solum Boni Moriuntur Iuvenes)
She yl-vleeantag t'ayn, as t'ee gaase wheesh as 75cm er yrdjid as 60cm er lheead. Ta duillagyn roauyr glass-ghorrym eck, as blaaghyn baney. Ta rass lomarcan gaase ayns fynneig chruinn.
The real possibility of life-threatening peritonitis is the reason why acute appendicitis warrants speedy evaluation and treatment. The patient may have to undergo a medical evacuation. Appendectomies have occasionally been performed in emergency conditions (i.e. outside of a proper hospital), when a timely medical evacuation was impossible.
Ansherbee, ta studeyrys liorish faaishneyder yn ard-valley soilshaghey magh nagh vel earrooyn yn inymmyrkey shoh heose barrantoil as va mygeayrt 400,000 sthie-arree gleney 'sy vlein 2005. Ta coreir 'ir quaagh 'sy Reeriaght Unnaneysit beggan ny sloo na t'ayns çheeraghyn Oarpagh ennagh elley, ansherbee. Bee yn inymmyrkey daa cheayrt ny smoo harrish y daa yeihaght ry heet gys 9.1 millioonyn, er coontey veih 31 Jerrey Geuree ny bleeaney 2008.
«Iridaceae» (inglés). The families of flowering plants: descriptions, illustrations, identification, and information retrieval. Version: 1st June 2007.. Consultáu'l 4 de payares de 2007.
Bangkok Assassins ek 2011 mein bana Cantonese, English film hain. Yea film Thailand mein Yuthlert Sippapak ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Abid, Kefi Adwen, Arak Amornsupasiri, Paiboon Anansuwan acting kiye the.
Veih'n 9-oo eash, ren straihyn dy ruegyssyn Loghlynagh craghey mannishteryn as baljyn Yernagh. Chur ny ruegyssyn shen lesh taghyrt cadjin dy chraghey as caggey va ry-gheddyn dy dowin ayns Nerin hannah.
easyJet Switzerland (Ajaccio, Alicante, Amsterdam, Asturias, Barcelona, Bordeaux, Bournemouth [seasonal], Brussels, Budapest, Cagliari [seasonal], Ibiza [seasonal], Las Palmas, Lisbon, London-Gatwick, Madrid, Malaga, Marrakech, Nantes, Naples, Nice, Olbia [seasonal], Palma de Mallorca [seasonal], Paris-Orly, Porto, Rome-Ciampino, Split, Stockholm-Arlanda)
Similarly tae Mecca, entrance tae Medina is restrictit tae Muslims anerlie; non-Muslims are neither permittit tae enter nor travel through the ceety. Muslims believe that the latter verses o the Quran wur revealed in Medina an its surroondin ootskirts, cried the medinan suras.
After Schmidt announced the end of his tenure as CEO on January 20, 2011, he jokingly tweeted on Twitter: "Adult-supervision no longer needed." Quartz organizational management reporter, Max Nisen, described the decade prior to Page's second appointment as Google's CEO as his "lost decade." While Page continued to exert a significant influence at Google during this time, overseeing product development and other operations, he became increasingly disconnected and less responsive over time.
Beaulieu-sur-Loire is a commune in the Loiret depairtment in north-central Fraunce. It is the place o daith o Jacques MacDonald, a French general who servit in the Napoleonic Wars
Gardner, A.L. 2005. Order Paucituberculata. In Wilson, D.E. & Reeder, D.M. (eds.) Mammal Species of the World, Third Edition. The Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore.: 19-20.
Blackmore, J. (1974) The relationship between self-reported delinquency and official convictions amongst adolescent boys. British Journal of Criminology, 14, 172-176.
Self-censorship is a growing problem in journalism, particularly in covering countries that sharply restrict press freedom. As commercial pressure in the media marketplace grows, media organizations are loath to lose access to high-profile countries by producing unflattering stories. For example, CNN admitted that it had practiced self-censorship in covering the Saddam Hussein regime in Iraq in order to ensure continued access after the regime had thrown out other media. CNN correspondent Christiane Amanpour also complained of self-censorship during the invasion of Iraq due to the fear of alienating key audiences in the US. There are claims that the media are also avoiding covering stories about repression and human rights violations by the Israeli and Iranian regimes in order to maintain a presence in those countries.
Horses of God ek 2012 mein bana French, Arabic film hain. Yea film France, Belgium, Tunisia, Morocco mein Nabil Ayouch ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Abdelhakim Rachi, Abdelilah Rachid, Hamza Souidek, Ahmed El Idrissi Amrani acting kiye the.
To his credit he has but one understudy, "Edward Price." Edward Price was introduced into Omar's life by his niece. During the four years of teaching, Omar published one of Edwards poems and painted 2 portraits of the young student.
M. Prasad, Sixty Years of Soccer in Fiji 1938 – 1998: The Official History of the Fiji Football Association, Fiji Football Association, Suva, 1998.
Esther 5:10, zvakanyadaro Hamani wakadzibata, akaenda kanyi: Nevertheless, Haman restrained himself and went home... (kubva muBhaibheri reChiNdau.
In 2014 locomotive 1252 was repainted to celebrate 175 years of railways in the Netherlands. As part of this, the locomotive was decorated with a promotional slogan by Märklin "The original must be Märklin - Märklin congratulates the Netherlands on 175 years of railways" in Dutch on one side of the locomotive body and German on the other. The locomotive was offered as a one-time series HO scale model by Märklin as item No. 37128 in 2014.
It'd be great if you could join us, test the demo version, provide feedback and take part in the development of Wikidata. You can find all the relevant information including an FAQ and sign-up links for our on-wiki newsletter on the Wikidata page on Meta.
William Kahan - numerical analysis Robert E. Kahn - TCP/IP Avinash Kak - digital image processing Daniel Mopati Kapeng - web designing principles Alan Kay - Dynabook, Smalltalk, overlapping windows Richard Karp - NP-completeness Narendra Karmarkar - Karmarkar's algorithm Marek Karpinski - NP optimization problems John George Kemeny - BASIC Ken Kennedy - compiling for parallel and vector machines Brian Kernighan - Unix, the 'k' in AWK Carl Kesselman - grid computing Gregor Kiczales - CLOS, reflection (computer science), aspect-oriented programming Stephen Cole Kleene - Kleene closure, recursion theory Leonard Kleinrock - ARPANET, queueing theory, packet switching, hierarchical routing Donald Knuth - The Art of Computer Programming, MIX/MMIX, TeX, literate programming Andrew Koenig - C++ Michael Kölling - BlueJ Janet L. Kolodner - case-based reasoning David Korn - Korn shell Kees Koster - ALGOL 68 John Koza - genetic programming Andrey Nikolaevich Kolmogorov - algorithmic complexity theory Robert Kowalski - logic programming John Krogstie - SEQUAL framework Joseph Kruskal - Kruskal's algorithm Thomas E. Kurtz - BASIC
To obtain an uninterrupted view of the Sun, the European Space Agency and NASA cooperatively launched the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) on December 2, 1995.
Iske saathe Vatican City , French-speaking des ke saathe French me communicate kare hae aur Puducherry, Tamilnadu, India ke ek official language French hae.
Different modéls of computation have the ability to do different tasks. One way to méasure the power of a computational modél is to study the class of formal languages that the modél can generate; this léads to the Chomsky hierarchy of languages.
From 1975 to 1979, CBS aired all NBA Finals games live (usually during the afternoon); live NBA Finals game coverage on the network resumed in 1982. During this era, CBS aired weeknight playoff games from earlier rounds on tape delay at 11:30 p.m. Eastern Time (airing games live when the game site was in the Pacific Time Zone). CBS continued this practice until at least the mid-1980s.
(engelsk: That total hostile forces committed against KYUSHU operations will not exceed eight (8) to ten (10) divisions and that this level will be speedily attained.)
The new draft of the GNU FDL includes a number of improvements, such as new terms crafted during the GPLv3 process to improve internationalization, clarifications to help people applying the license to audio and video, and relaxed requirements for using an excerpt from a work.
In 1993, Reynolds and Dave Matthews started playing a few acoustic duo sets. These featured Matthews music, stripped down to just the acoustic guitar, paired with Reynolds's guitar, and Reynolds' occasional use of slide guitar. During these sets, Reynolds would play between one and four of his own pieces that spanned his own catalog of work. After a few years these shows gained popularity, and in 1996 Matthews and Reynolds embarked on their first full tour together as a duo. In 1999, coinciding with the release of the 40-date tour, Live at Luther College was released.
Going into the 1981 NFL season, CBS Sports executives decided that John Madden, who had joined the network in 1979 and had worked with Frank Glieber and Gary Bender (Pat Summerall and Madden were first teamed on a November 25, 1979 broadcast of a Minnesota Vikings–Tampa Bay Buccaneers game) in his first two years, was going to be their star NFL color commentator. But they had trouble figuring out who was going to be his play-by-play partner. At the time CBS had reshuffled their #1 team lineup as Summerall's longtime broadcast partner Tom Brookshier was moved into a play-by-play role, and it was not immediately clear if Summerall was going to keep his position or if the network was going to promote #2 play-by-play man Vin Scully, whose contract was nearing expiration, to take over. CBS elected to give both Summerall and Scully chances to work with Madden. Scully worked with Madden for four games in September while Summerall was busy covering the U.S. Open tennis tournament for CBS. Summerall then worked with Madden for four October games as Scully called Major League Baseball's National League Championship Series and World Series for the Los Angeles Dodgers Radio Network and CBS Radio respectively. After the eighth week of the NFL season, CBS Sports executives decided that the laconic, baritone-voiced Summerall's style was more in tuned with the lively, verbose Madden than the elegant, poetic Scully. As a consolation prize, CBS Sports gave Scully the "B" team assignment and the right to call the NFC Championship Game on CBS Television with Hank Stram. Meanwhile, Pat Summerall called that game on CBS Radio with Jack Buck while John Madden prepared to do the Super Bowl with Summerall in Pontiac, Michigan. Vin Scully reportedly was not happy about the demotion as well as (in his eyes) having his intelligence be insulted (at least, according to CBS Sports producer Terry O'Neil in the book The Game Behind the Game). As a result, Scully bolted to NBC (where he started a memorable seven-year run as their lead Major League Baseball announcer) as soon as his contract with CBS was up.
Ta lieh chooid eaghtyr y Reeriaght Unnaneysit jeant seose jeh Sostyn, as ee 130,410 kilometeryn kerrinagh (50,350 mi ker) er eaghtyr. Çheer injil t'aynjee son y chooid smoo agh ta çheer sleitagh ry gheddyn sheear hwoaie jeh linney Tees-Exe as goaill stiagh Sleityn Cumbria ayns Slyst ny Loghyn, Sleityn Pennine as cruink chlagh eayil ayns Slyst ny Binn, Exmoor as Dartmoor. She y Thaimish, y Severn as y Humber preeu-awinyn as inveryn Hostyn. She Scafell Pike (978 m er yrjid), as eh soit ayns Slyst ny Loghyn, y slieau s'yrjey. Ta ram baljyn as ard-valjyn mooarey ayns Sostyn as, rere Cryssyn Baljagh Mooarey, ta shey jeh ny 50 Cryssyn smoo yn Unnaneys Oarpagh soit aynjee.
I was ashamed of my parents. I couldn't face some of my friends at school anymore, because I desperately wanted to have the classic, you know, typical family. Mother, father. I wanted that security, so I resented my parents for quite a few years because of that. — Savage, Jon. "Kurt Cobain: The Lost Interview." Guitar World. 1997
Jiu, t'ad ny jiastyn as ny h-organeyn cummit eukaryoteagh Saccharomyces cerevisiae as Schizosaccharomyces pombe smoo ynsaghit as toiggit ayn.
O'Connor, J.J.; Robertson, E.F. (May 1996b). "A History of Quantum Mechanics". MacTutor History of Mathematics archive. University of St Andrews. 喺1 April 2014搵到.
The following table shows how common various erection angles are for a standing male, out of a sample of 1,564 males aged 20 through 69. In the table, zero degrees is pointing straight up against the abdomen, 90 degrees is horizontal and pointing straight forward, while 180 degrees would be pointing straight down to the feet. An upward pointing angle is most common.
Ini dikenali sebagai carrying.Bila hasil of an addition exceeds the value of a digit, the procedure is to "carry" the excess amount divided by the radix (that is, 10/10) to the left, adding it to the next positional value. This is correct since the next position has a weight that is higher by a factor equal to the radix. Carrying works the same way in binary:
Creighton, Wilfred. Forestkeeping: A History of the Department of Lands and Forests in Nova Scotia, 1926-1969. Halifax: Nova Scotia Dept. of Lands and Forests, 1988. 155 pp.
American writer Mark Twain wrote: "Benares is older than history, older than tradition, older even than legend, and looks twice as old as all of them put together." Agpang king talasulat a Americanung i Mark Twain: "Benares is older than history, older than tradition, older even than legend, and looks twice as old as all of them put together." (Ing Benares mas matua ya pa king amlat, mas matua ya king tradisiun, mas matua ya pati king alamat, at lupa yang makatadua katua kareting sablang deting piaben-abayan.)
Vermondo Brugnatelli, "Arabe et berbère à Jerba", in: A. Youssi, F. Benjelloun, M. Dahbi, Z. Iraqui-Sinaceur (eds.), Aspects of the Dialects of Arabic Today. *Proceedings of the 4th Conference of the International Arabic Dialectology Association (AIDA). Marrakesh, Apr. 1-4.2000. In Honour of Professor David Cohen, Rabat, Amapatril, 2002, pp. 169-178.
Robin van Persie (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈrɔbɪn vɑn ˈpɛrsi] ( listen); born 6 August 1983) is a Dutch fitbawer who plays as a striker for Manchester United an is the captain o the Netherlands naitional team.
Armenia and the Crusades, Tenth to Twelfth Centuries: The Chronicle of Matthew of Edessa. in het Engels vertaald door Ara Edmond Dostourian. National Association for Armenian Studies and Research, 1993.
Ayns ny kiare feed as jeigyn anmagh, vooadee ny caslys-skeealyn eddyr-voggyl v'ayn dy tappee, as fir ennoil myr Sluggy Freelance, Roomies! (roie-hagher It's Walky), Piled Higher and Deeper, Newshounds, User Friendly, Penny Arcade as PvP. T'adsyn kuse dy ny fir smoo cummaghtagh t'ayn.
Richard Gabriel Zvi Galil Bernard Galler - MAD (programming language) Hector Garcia-Molina Michael Garey - NP-completeness Hugo de Garis David Gelernter Charles Geschke Seymour Ginsburg - formal languages, automata theory, AFL theory, database theory Robert L. Glass Kurt Gödel - computability - not a computer scientist per se, but his work was invaluable in the field Joseph Goguen Adele Goldberg - Smalltalk Ian Goldberg - cryptographer, off-the-record messaging Oded Goldreich - cryptography, computational complexity theory Shafi Goldwasser - cryptography, computational complexity theory Gene Golub - matrix (math) computation Martin Charles Golumbic - algorithmic graph theory James Gosling - NeWS, Java (programming language) Paul Graham - Viaweb, On Lisp, Arc Susan L. Graham - compilers, programming environments Jim Gray - database Sheila Greibach - Greibach normal form, AFL theory Ralph Griswold - SNOBOL Barbara J. Grosz - Natural Language Processing, Planning, Centering Theory Tom Gruber Ramanathan V. Guha - RDF, Netscape, RSS (file format), Epinions Neil J. Gunther - computer performance analysis, capacity planning Peter G. Gyarmati - adaptivity in operating systems and networking
Relve porivhonantlea provasi yeradarichea adhunikikoronnant relvechea bhumyari ani prixtthobhagauylean vochpi yeradari veusthechoi aspavo zata. Hatuntole dusre veustheche don vibhag poddleat. Poileant bhumyari relvemargor dhamvpi aggaddoyo upnogoramni bhuprixtthar dhamvtat ani dusreant unnea vojnachea ddobeanchi ani rullanchi holki relve yeradari prochlit asta.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29
The process — including discussions on offset proposals, technical evaluation, short-listing by the Defence Ministry, hot weather and winter trails — is expected to be completed by the middle of 2010.
According to these four realms, we may distinguish between four main constituent elements of an inclusive democracy: the political, the economic, 'democracy in the social realm' and the ecological. The first three elements form the institutional framework, which aims at the equal distribution of political, economic and social power respectively. In this sense, these elements define a system, which aims at the effective elimination of the domination of human being over human being. Similarly, ecological democracy is defined as the institutional framework, which aims to eliminate any human attempt to dominate the natural world, in other words, the system, which aims to reintegrate humans and nature.
An Apostle of Monism: An Authentic Account of the Activities of Swami Abhedananda in America, by Mary Le Page. Published by Ramakrishna Vedanta Math, 1947.
674,843 km2 -- France (whole territory of the French Republic, including all the overseas departments and territories, but excluding the disputed French territory of Terre Adélie in Antarctica
A lock is a mechanical or electronic fastening device that is released by a physical object (such as a key, keycard, fingerprint, RFID card, security token, coin etc.), by supplying secret information (such as a keycode or password), or by a combination thereof.
Besides hockey, Kelly also broadcast NFL for CBS Sports, as well as Missouri Tigers football, St. Louis Cardinals baseball and St. Louis Cardinals football for St. Louis radio station KMOX at different times in his career.
1962 marked her debut on Polish National Radio. Renown Polish actress Kalina Jędrusik sang Agnieszka's lyrics to a hit song by Franciszka Leszczyńska called "My First Ball" (Mój pierwszy bal). One year later at the first National Festival of Polish Song in Opole in 1963 Agnieszka achieved a major success winning the main prize and six other prizes for her lyrics: „Piosenka o Okularnikach“ (music by Jarosław Abram), as well as „Białe małżeństwo,“ „Czerwony kapturek,“ "Kochankowie z ulicy Kamiennej,“ „Solo na kontrabasie“ and „Ulice wielkich miast.“
Lisbon hosts twa agencies o the European Union: the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) an the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA). The Community o Portuguese Leid Kintras (CPLP) is an aa heidquairtered in Lisbon.
Prisoners of War Name List A large amount of information regarding the fate of Australian and British prisoners sent to, or destined for, the Sandakan POW Camp, has been collated.
Thorpe, Benjamin (trans.). The Anglo-Saxon Poems of Beowulf: The Scôp or Gleeman's Tale and the Fight at Finnesburg Oxford University Press. 1885.
Lack of Oversight, 2001: When Jack Nickerson Jr. was killed after a gas tank exploded, this story revealed that government agents' negligence was a major factor in his death
Cai Lun ([tsʰâi lwə̌n]; Cheenese: 蔡伦; AD 48– 121), coortesy name Jingzhong (敬仲), wis a Han dynasty Cheenese eunuch an offeecial. He is tradeetionally regairdit as the inventor o paper an the papermakin process, in forms recognisable in modren times as paper (as opponed tae papyrus). Awtho early forms o paper haed exeestit in Cheenae syne the 2nt century BC, he wis responsible for the first signeeficant impruivement an staundartisation o paper-makin bi addin essential new materials intae its composeetion.
In 1934, Philip Johnson met Jimmie Daniels, cabaret singer. Daniels was Johnson's first serious relationship. The relationship lasted only one year, and Johnson would recall later that "a terrible man stole him away—who had better sex with him, I gather. But I was naughty. I went to Europe and I would never think of taking Jimmie along."
Matchett, M.D., MacKinnon, S.L., Sweeney, M.I., Gottschall-Pass, K.T., and Hurta, R.A.R. Blueberry flavonoids inhibit matrix metalloproteinase activity in DU145 human prostate cancer cells. Biochem Cell Biol. 83: 637-643, 2005.
Jack St. Clair Kilby (November 8, 1923 – Juin 20, 2005) wis an American electrical ingineer wha teuk pairt (alang wi Robert Noyce) in the realisation o the first integratit circuit while wirkin at Texas Instruments (TI) in 1958. He wis awairdit the Nobel Prize in pheesics on December 10, 2000.
1952 - Operation Ivy - The Geānlǣht Rīcu American successfully detonates the first hydrogen bomb, codenamed "Mike" ["m" for megaton], at Eniwetok island in the Bikini atoll located in the Pacific Ocean.
December 12, 2008 Audio Interview with WCCW's Mickey Grant regarding World Class, Gary Hart, and "Gentleman's Choice" a 2008 Documentary on The Life of Gentleman Chris Adams
An rol ma a dhrehevyansow an uhella yn Cincinnati a wradheg tourow ebren y’n cita S.U. a Cincinnati, Ohio der uhelder. Drehevyans an uhella yn Cincinnati yw Carew Tower a 49 leur, hag a omsav 574 ts (175 m) hag a veu kowlwrys yn 1931.
The World Branding Forum is a global non-profit organisation. Its aims and activities are to raise the standards of branding for the good of consumers as well as the industry, including those who work in the branding, design, marketing, advertising, public relations and communications disciplines worldwide. Its chairman is Richard Rowles, and the brand strategist Peter Pek, is its chief executive.
2007: Gippert, Jost / Sarjveladze, Zurab / Kajaia, Lamara: The Old Georgian Palimpsest Codex Vindobonensis georgicus 2. Edited by Jost Gippert in co-operation with Zurab Sarjveladze and Lamara Kajaia. (Monumenta Palaeographica Medii Aevi, Series Ibero-Caucasica, 1) Turnhout: Brepols 2007.
Bernson, Mary Hammond and Elaine Magnusson, eds. Modern Japan: An Idea Book for K-12 Teachers. Multicultural Education Resource Serial. Olympia, WA: Office of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, 1984. ED 252 486.
Lisbon (Portuguese: Lisboa; Portuguese pronunciation: [liʒˈboɐ]) is the caipital an lairgest ceety o Portugal, wi a population o 564,657 athin its admeenistrative limits on a land aurie o 84.8 km2 (33 sq mi). The urban aurie o Lisbon extends ayont the admeenistrative ceety limits wi a population o 2.4 million on a aurie o 958 km2 (370 sq mi), it is the 12t maist populous urban aurie in the European Union. Aboot 2,831,000 fowk live in the Lisbon Metropolitan Aurie (which represents approximately 27% o the population o the kintra) an 3.34 million fowk live in the broader agglomeration o Lisbon Metropolitan Region (includes ceeties rangin froe Leiria tae Setúbal). Lisbon is the wastrenmaist lairge ceety locatit in Europe, as well as its wastrenmaist caipital ceety. It lies in the wastren Iberie Peninsulae on the Atlantic Ocean an the Tagus River, aboot 320 km (198.84 mi) northwast o Cape Spartel in Africae.
During the turbulent reign of Wang Mang, Han lost control over the Tarim Basin, which was conquered by the Northern Xiongnu in AD 63 and used as a base to invade Han's Hexi Corridor in Gansu. Dou Gu (d. 88 AD) defeated the Northern Xiongnu at the Battle of Yiwulu in AD 73, evicting them from Turpan and chasing them as far as Lake Barkol before establishing a garrison at Hami. After the new Protector General of the Western Regions Chen Mu (d. AD 75) was killed by allies of the Xiongnu in Karasahr and Kucha, the garrison at Hami was withdrawn. At the Battle of Ikh Bayan in AD 89, Dou Xian (d. AD 92) defeated the Northern Xiongnu chanyu who then retreated into the Altai Mountains. After the Northern Xiongnu fled into the Ili River valley in AD 91, the nomadic Xianbei occupied the area from the borders of the Buyeo Kingdom in Manchuria to the Ili River of the Wusun people. The Xianbei reached their apogee under Tanshihuai (檀石槐) (d. AD 180), who consistently defeated Chinese armies. However, Tanshihuai's confederation disintegrated after his death.
Technical details : BotMultichill is an interwiki bot starting at the Dutch wikipedia. The bot uses the pywikipedia framework and runs day and night in autonomous mode. Sometimes the bot will run in manual assisted mode to solve interwiki conflicts. Multichill 08:03, 5 сентября 2007 (UTC)
1992 - El Salvador officials and rebel leaders sign the Chapultepec Peace Accords in Mexico City that ends a 12-year ingefeoht that claimed at least 75,000.
According to the article five of the Armistice about 150 000 Bulgarian soldiers that have been situated on the West of Skopje meridian have been delivered to Entente’s forces as hostages.
Aathi ek 2006 mein bana Tamil film hain. Yea film India mein Ramana ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Vijay, Trisha Krishnan, Vivek, Sai Kumar acting kiye the.
Kuznetzov, V. I., C. M. Naumann, W. Speidel, et A. A. Stekolnikov. 2004. The skeleton and musculature of male and female terminalia in Oenosandra boisduvalii Newman, 1856 and the phylogenetic position of the family Oenosandridae (Insecta: Lepidoptera). SHILAP Revista de Lepidopterologia 32: 297-313.
Other atoms can be trapped inside fullerenes, and indeed recent evidence for a metéor impact at the end of the Permian period was found by analysing noble gases so preserved.
An HEV a wrug iskowethyans kyttrin yn kres an 1920ow a oberas meur a wonisyow kyttrin an enys. Hemma a weresas an hyns-horn dhe remaynya lesek bys y'n 1960ow.
Zach Braff (born 1975, class of 1993), actor/Producer/Writer/Director; leading actor on the television series Scrubs and producer / director / writer / star of Garden State.
Centre of Vocational Excellence (CoVE) is a status given to departments in further education colleges (and some third party training companies) in England. It is intended as a kind of quality guarantee for vocational teaching, and is awarded by the Learning and Skills Council if the teaching is of good quality and if the department offers a range of courses with progression routes up to Level 3 or beyond in the National Qualifications Framework.
Committee on Advancing Desalination Technology, National Research Council. (2008). Desalination: A National Perspective. National Academies Press.
I am pleased to announce that nominations are now being accepted for the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections. This year the Board and the FDC Staff are looking for a diverse set of candidates from regions and projects that are traditionally under-represented on the board and in the movement as well as candidates with experience in technology, product or finance. To this end they have published letters describing what they think is needed and, recognizing that those who know the community the best are the community themselves, the election committee is accepting nominations for community members you think should run and will reach out to those nominated to provide them with information about the job and the election process.
Hi, apologies for posting this in English, but I wanted to alert your community to a discussion on Meta about potential changes to the Wikimedia Trademark Policy. Please translate this statement if you can. We hope that you will all participate in the discussion; we also welcome translations of the legal team’s statement into as many languages as possible and encourage you to voice your thoughts there. Please see the Trademark practices discussion (on Meta-Wiki) for more information. Thank you! --Mdennis (WMF) (talk)
In 1981, Bantam Books published a movie tie-in novelization written by Mike McQuay that adopts a lean, humorous style reminiscent of the film. The novel is significant because it includes scenes that were cut out of the film, such as the Federal Reserve Depository robbery that results in Snake's incarceration. The novel provides motivation and backstory to Snake and Hauk — both disillusioned war veterans — deepening their relationship that was only hinted at it in the film. The novel explains how Snake lost his eye during the Battle for Leningrad in World War III, how Hauk became warden of New York, and Hauk's quest to find his crazy son who lives somewhere in the prison. The novel fleshes out the world that these characters exist in, at times presenting a future even bleaker than the one depicted in the film. The book explains that the West Coast is a no-man's land, and the country's population is gradually being driven crazy by nerve gas as a result of World War III.
It the vera beginnin o the early medieval time thare wur nae Angles nor anly Saxons nor een ony Vikings juist yet. In the land the Romans caad Caledonia thare wur mainly juist the Pechts an mibbe a wee bit frae the north pairts o Hibernia as the Romans haed caad it. Thare's monitor whit uist tae think the Irish cam ainer in muckle numers. Bit naw. In reality archaeological evidence maks it clear that an elite cam ower. This wis verra lik the situation win the Saxons wha cam intae the East o Britannia an some o whom cam up tae Caledonia in the Lothian. Thare few indeed. We're as well tae think in terms o jist a few thousan it maist. As elites tho thus influence wis great on the local population. Sae the Pictish tongue retreats frae Argyle as weel as frae the sooth o the Lothian.
The tomb of Rachel the Righteous is at a distance of 1½ miles from Jerusalem, in the middle of the field, not far from Bethlehem, as it says in the Torah. On Passover and Lag B'Omer many people – men and women, young and old – go out to Rachel's Tomb on foot and on horseback. And many pray there, make petitions and dance around the tomb and eat and drink. Rabbi Moses Surait of Prague, 1650
On November 25, 1965 (Thanksgiving Day), CBS featured the first-ever color broadcast of a regular-season NFL game, the traditional Thanksgiving Day game at Detroit. It was only the second time the network's first color mobile unit had been used (it had been used a month earlier to cover the attempted launch of an Atlas-Agena which was to have been the rendezvous target for the Gemini 6 space mission). Only a handful of games during the rest of the season were shown in color, along with the NFL Western Conference Playoff, the NFL Championship Game, the Playoff Bowl and the Pro Bowl. In 1966, most of the network's NFL games were broadcast in color, and by 1968, all of the network's NFL telecasts were in color.
László Bíró, a newspaper editor, was frustrated by the amount of time that he wasted in filling up fountain pens and cleaning up smudged pages, and the sharp tip of his fountain pen often tore his pages of newsprint. Bíró had noticed that the type of ink used in newspaper printing dried quickly, leaving the paper dry and smudge free. He decided to create a pen using the same type of ink. Since, when tried, this viscous ink would not flow into a regular fountain pen nib, Bíró, with the help of his brother George, a chemist, began to work on designing new types of pens. Bíró fitted this pen with a tiny ball in its tip that was free to turn in a socket. As the pen moved along the paper, the ball rotated, picking up ink from the ink cartridge and leaving it on the paper. Bíró filed a British patent on 15 June, 1938.
Joseph, J.A., Shukitt-Hale B., Denisova, N.A. Bielinksi D., Martin, A., McEwen, J.J., & Bickford, P.C., 1999. Reversals of age-related declines in neuronal signal transduction, cognitive, and motor behavioral deficits with blueberry, spinach, or strawberry dietary supplementation. Journal of Neuroscience 19 (18): 8114–8121.
"I Am Warplane: How the first autonomous strike plane will land on aircraft carriers, navigate hostile airspace and change the future of flight". Popular Science. 5 July 2012.
Glasser, Otto (1933). Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen and the Early History of the Roentgen Rays. London: John Bale, Sons and Danielsson, Ltd. p. 305. OCLC 220696336.
Adding two "1" digits menghasilkan digit "0", while 1 will have to be added to the next column. This is similar to what happens in decimal when certain single-digit numbers are added together; if the hasil equals or exceeds the value of the radix (10), the digit to the left is incremented:
The Fairy ek 2011 mein bana French film hain. Yea film France, Belgium mein Dominique Abel, Fiona Gordon, Bruno Romy ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Dominique Abel, Fiona Gordon, Philippe Martz, Bruno Romy acting kiye the.
Eternal Word Television Network (EWTN) and Our Lady and Islam: Heaven's Peace Plan Relationship between Mary, Islam and the Fátima apparitions.
is pretty good. I mean it took us a long time to do and I think most of the people that I talk to that make records and stuff, there's always stuff that you wish you did better or maybe a little differently. I've never been able to avoid that, even with this. There's things that I wish I had done maybe a little differently. But that also comes with just listening to it and living with it for so long that until it's done you won't really hear things in that way until it's like too late I guess. But I would say for the most part that I'm really happy with it.
Humbidziro (Vessel in which beer is taken home from a beer drink) apa kureva mudziyo unotakura doro kuenda kumba richibva panzvimbo parabikwa - kuita uku kunonzi kukumbidzira kana gumbidziro. Vamwe vanoti mukewo.
Los Andjeles (ingl. Los Angeles, isp. Los Ángeles, sonday-aq, L.A. va City of Angeles - perishteler qalasi atlari menen ataqli) - Tinish okeaninin' janinda jaylasqan AQSHtin'
Lerner, Max, ed. 1945. The Mind and Faith of Justice Holmes: His Speeches, Essays, Letters and Judicial Opinions. Bostoniae: Little, Brown and Company.
Atomage Magazine Appreciation Site (A private, non-commercial site featuring the history and work of John Sutcliffe and his Atomage fetish clothing business)
Rehn wis marrit tae Ove Rehn frae 1955 till his daith, an they hae fower childer: Veronica, Joakim, Charlotta an Johan. Ove Rehn dee'd on 8 November 2004.
Gorsav govyn yw Tir an Bughes. Yma res dhe drethysi a vynn junya an tren gul sinell kler dhe'n lewyer ha'n tren ow trehedhes; yma res dhe'n re a vynn diyskynna leverel dhe'n gwithyas-tren. Nyns usi trenow dydh Sul yntra mis Du ha mis Me.
From 5 September 2006 to 11 June 2009 he was Chief of Staff of the General Command of the Army. On 12 June 2009, Leonardo Gallitelli was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Army by the Council of Ministers .
The calcium compounds calcite and lime have been known and used since prehistoric times. The same is true for the beryllium compounds beryl and emerald.Template:Sfn The other compounds of the alkaline earth metals were discovered starting in the early 15th century. The magnesium compound magnesium sulfate was first discovered in 1618 by a farmer at Epsom in England. Strontium carbonate was discovered in minerals in the Scottish village of Strontian in 1790. The last element is the least abundant: radioactive radium, which was extracted from uraninite in 1898.
The decision is announced by messengers, the holy ones declare the verdict, so that the living may know that the Most High is sovereign over all kingdoms on earth and gives them to anyone he wishes and sets over them the lowliest of people.’
Takis Fotopoulos' Interview to Oliver Ressler about Inclusive Democracy. This is an interview with Takis Fotopoulos taken by Oliver Ressler for his video series "Alternative Economics, Alternative Societies" on July 19, 2003, about the Inclusive Democracy project. English and Greek subtitles are available. In this video, Fotopoulos discusses the constituents of Inclusive Democracy: Political, Economic, democracy at the Social level and Ecological democracy. He is also offering an introductory analysis of the ID' s proposed economic model for a state-less, market-less and money-less economy. Finally, he refers to the transitional strategy for the transformation to an autonomous society, for an Inclusive Democracy. Retrieved 4 January 2014.
Aristide Briand (French: [a.ʁis.tid bʁi.jɑ̃]; 28 Mairch 1862 – 7 Mairch 1932) wis a French statesman wha served eleiven terms as Prime Meenister o Fraunce during the French Third Republic an wis a co-laureate o the 1926 Nobel Peace Prize.
Pohang's road airteries an shippin port made it a place o strategic significance durin the Korean War. An unopposed laundin o UN forces at Pohang on 18 Julie 1950 wis the first large-scale amphibious operation syne Warld War II, an the region aroond Pohang saw fierce clashes atween Sooth Korea's 3rd Infantry Division an North Korea's 5t Infantry Diveesion durin August–September 1950.
The pairing ended following the 2009 NFL season, with Albert's last call being Super Bowl XLIV in Miami. On June 4, 2010, Albert announced that he was leaving Westwood One to focus on his NBA broadcasting duties for TNT and the YES Network. In 2011, he returned to calling NFL games for CBS television.
One of the country's largest power plant stations was founded in Padbilao. It is part of the Tourism Highway program of the Department of Tourism.
Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls ek 1995 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Steve Oedekerk ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jim Carrey, Ian McNeice, Simon Callow, Maynard Eziashi acting kiye the.
The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 3 to 23:59 UTC May 10. Click here to vote. Questions and discussion with the candidates will continue during that time. Click here to ask the FDC candidates a question. Click here to ask the FDC Ombudsperson candidates a question. More information on the candidates and the elections can be found on the 2015 FDC election page, the 2015 FDC Ombudsperson election page, and the 2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.
Santiago Niltepec is a toun an municipality in Oaxaca in sooth-wastren Mexico. It is pairt o the Juchitán Destrict in the wast o the Istmo de Tehuantepec region. The name means "Hill o Indigo."
During his first tenure as CEO, Page embarked on a passed attempt to fire all of Google's project managers in 2001. Page's plan involved all of Google’s engineers reporting to a VP of engineering, who would then report directly to him—Page explained that he didn’t like non-engineers supervising engineers due to their limited technical knowledge. Page even documented his management tenets for his team to use as a reference:
Coca-Abia, M. 2007: Phylogenetic relationships of the subfamily Melolonthinae (Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae). Insect systematics & evolution, 38: 447-472.
She steat ayns ny Steatyn Unnaneysit eh New Mexico (ny Meksico Noa ny Noa-Veksico). She Santa Fe yn preeu-valley as she Albuquerque y balley smoo 'sy steat.
Gwidi rinorimwa nomunhu asingachuchi doro, nokuti ndimo munogara tsoko namakudo: a field in the hills has to have a man who does not crave beer to cultivate it, since monkeys and baboons live there.
William F. Banham, founder of Banham Security, invented the first automatic latch bolt lock in 1926 after a series of burglaries on his wife's dress shop. He opened up his own locksmith shop on Oxford Street, London, and offered £25 to anyone who could pick or break one of his patented locks Banham Group still offer the patented locks.
Viggiù (Vigiǘ in Milanese) is a comune (municipality) in the Province o Varese in the Italian region Lombardy, locatit aboot 50 km northwast o Milan an aboot 8 km northeast o Varese, on the border wi Swisserland. As o 31 Dizember 2004, it haed a population o 5,148 an a aurie o 9.3 km².
Korfhage, Robert R. (1966). Logic and Algorithms, With Applications to the Computer and Information Sciences. Wiley. стр. 89. »A method of solution will be called a semi-algorithm for [a problem] P on [a device] M if the solution to P (if one exists) appears after the performance of finitely many steps. A semi-algorithm will be called an algorithm if, in addition, whenever the problem has no solution the method enables the device to determine this after a finite number of steps and halts.«
The Institut Pasteur - Foundation Dedicated to the prevention and treatment of diseases through biological research, education and public health activities
Rescripts obtained by obreption or subreption are null and void when the motive cause of the rescript is affected by them. If it is only the impelling cause, and the substance of the petition is not affected, or if the false statement was made through ignorance, the rescript is not vitiated. As requests for rescripts must come through a person in ecclesiastical authority, it is his duty to inform himself of the truth or falsity of the causes alleged in the petitions, and in case they are granted, to see that the conditions of the rescript are fulfilled.
BackRub is written in Java and Python and runs on several Sun Ultras and Intel Pentiums running Linux. The primary database is kept on a Sun Ultra series II with 28GB of disk. Scott Hassan and Alan Steremberg have provided a great deal of very talented implementation help. Sergey Brin has also been very involved and deserves many thanks.
Uu August 2006 me Fiji Labour Party ke National Council ke acting chairman rahaa jab FLP ke member jon ki cabinet me rahin (cabinet Krishna Datt and Poseci Bune, MPs Felix Anthony and Agni Deo Singh, and former senator Dr Atu Emberson-Bain) ke virod me aapan man maani kare ke khatir disciplinary action lewa gais rahaa.
March 2010 me Narsey ii maang karis ki Fiji ke prime minister aur military regime ke leader Bainimarama ke chaahi ki uu censorship kamtii kar d jisse ki public interest can be served through robust and critical political reporting and analysis.
Nakodar railway station is the nearest train station. The village is 64 kilometres (40 mi) away from domestic airport in Ludhiana and the nearest international airport is located in Chandigarh also Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport is the second nearest airport which is 117 kilometres (73 mi) away in Amritsar.
Epstein is the Ministerial Assistant for the Department of Community Services, specifically co-operative housing and other housing programs.
Carrow Road, ii England kay Norwich shehr, mae sthit ek football stadium hae. Ii Norwich City Football Club ka home ground hae, ii ma 27,244 logo ke baithe ke jagah hae.
Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on de:Wikipedia:Kurier.
Mbwiridzurwa (Second cooking after consumption of what was cooked first). Imbomirira sadza rembwiridzurwa: please wait for the second cooking (second sitting).
August 12: Treaty of Allahabad was signed. The Treaty marks the political and constitutional involvement and the beginning of Company rule in India.
Farrington, D. P. (1995c) The development of offending and antisocial behaviour from childhood: Key findings from the Cambridge Study in Delinquent Development. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 36, 929-964.
There are some sexual differences between a man and a woman. Men have sex organs which we call "external" (not inside the body). But many parts of the male reproductive system are internal too. The study of male reproduction and sex organs is "andrology".
Pilot of the Vic Viper and old acquaintance of Togo. At first he is quite arrogant to the Sonic Diver pilots and looks down on the Sonic Divers which pisses off Otoha and Ryohei.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
“Ayllu solidarity is a combination of kinship and territorial ties, as well as symbolism. (Albo 1972; Duviols 1974; Tshopik 1951; and Urioste 1975). These studies, however, do not explain how the ayllu is a corporate whole, which includes social principles, verticality, and metaphor... Ayllu also refers to people who live in the same territory (llahta) and who feed the earth shrines of that territory”
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30
Runnin throu the sooth are the main ranges o the Central Alps (incl. the Hohe Tauern muntains) wi numerous 3,000m peaks. The Dachstein Massif an the Berchtesgaden Alps border the Salzburger Land tae the east an north.
Carpenter had just made Dark Star but no one wanted to hire him as a director, so he assumed that he would make it in Hollywood as a screenwriter. The filmmaker went on to do other films with the intention of making Escape later. After the success of Halloween, Avco-Embassy signed him and producer Debra Hill to a two-picture deal. The first film from this contract was The Fog. Initially, the second film that he was going to make to finish the contract was The Philadelphia Experiment, but because of script-writing problems, Carpenter rejected it in favor of this project. However, Carpenter felt that something was missing and recalls, "This was basically a straight action film. And at one point, I realized it really doesn't have this kind of crazy humor that people from New York would expect to see." He brought in Nick Castle, a friend from his film school days at University of Southern California who played "The Shape" in Halloween. Castle invented the Cabbie character and came up with the film's ending.
Elizabeth Cometti, and Festus P. Summers. The Thirty-fifth State: A Documentary History of West Virginia. Morgantown: West Virginia University Library, 1966.
intyatyambo lolunye uhlobo lwesityalo. Ngamanye amaxesha kuthiwa ziibloom okanye ziiblossom zesityalo. Isityalo sikhula kwiThe plant grow on a stalk – a thin node – which supports the flower. Flowers have petals. Inside the petals are the parts which produce seeds.
Watt works primarily in lithography, sculpture, and installation. For her sculpture and installation, she uses a variety of materials, including everyday objects, as well as textiles, alabaster, slate, and cornhusks. She cites Pop art, Abstract Expressionism, and indigenous visual traditions as sources for her work. Watt had a studio in Portland, Oregon and started experimenting with materials, such as corn husk, then began experimenting with woven blankets. In 2002, her stone sculpture Pedestrian was installed along the east bank of the Willamette River in Portland. Her work has appeared in several exhibitions in the Pacific Northwest.
Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters ek 2013 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Thor Freudenthal ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Logan Lerman, Alexandra Daddario, Douglas Smith, Leven Rambin acting kiye the.
៣^ Likewise, in the technical sense a "journal" has continuous pagination throughout a volume. Thus Business Week, which starts each issue anew with page one, is a magazine, but the Journal of Business Communication, which starts each volume with the winter issue and continues the same sequence of pagination throughout the coterminous year, is a journal. Some professional or trade publications are also peer reviewed, an example being the Journal of Accountancy. See Magazine (firearms) for another sense in which the word "magazine" refers to serialized unitary behavior. Cf. the French Wikipedia's disambiguation of various meanings of the cognate magasin.
Page participated in a March 2014 TedX conference that was held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The presentation was scripted by Page's chief PR executive Rachel Whetstone, and Google’s CMO Lorraine Twohill, and a demonstration of an artificially intelligent computer program was displayed on a large screen. Page responded to a question about corporations, noting that corporations largely get a "bad rap", which he stated was because they were probably doing the same incremental things they were doing "50 or 20 years ago". He went on to juxtapose that kind of incremental approach to his vision of Google counteracting calcification through driving technology innovation at a high rate. Page mentioned Elon Musk and SpaceX:
Doomsday King is the aicht studio album bi the Swadish daith/thrash metal baund, The Crown, an the first album syne thair reunion. It wis released on 27 September 2010.
Earlier, time zones based their time on Greenwich Mean Time (GMT, also called UT1), the mean solar time at longitude ०° (the Prime Meridian). But as a mean solar time, GMT is defined by the rotation of the Earth, which is not constant in rate. So, the rate of atomic clocks was annually changed or steered to closely match GMT. But on January 1, 1972 it became fixed, using predefined leap seconds instead of rate changes. This new time system is Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Leap seconds are inserted to keep UTC within ०.९ seconds of UT१. In this way, local times continue to correspond approximately to mean solar time, while the effects of variations in Earth's rotation rate are confined to simple step changes that can be easily subtracted if a uniform time scale (International Atomic Time or TAI) is desired. With the implementation of UTC, nations began to use it in the definition of their time zones instead of GMT. As of २००५, most but not all nations have altered the definition of local time in this way (though many media outlets fail to make a distinction between GMT र UTC). Further change to the basis of time zones may occur if proposals to abandon leap seconds succeed.
In 2004, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Queen Latifah's production company, Flavor Unit Entertainment, attempted to remake the film, which was to have been written by Chris Frisina.
War Enters the Classrooms - the consequences of the Mideast conflict for the children of the Gaza Strip, by Inter Press Service, February 5, 2007
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 25,020 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 333.59 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 2212.
Industrial and Mining Water Research Unit (IMWaRU) iqembu locwaningo eSikoleni of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, University of the Witwatersrand, iGoli.
Nedbank has not implemented the extended code of 11 digits and all SWIFT transfers to its accounts are directed to the primary office for processing. Those transfer interfaces that require an 11 digit code would enter NEDSZAJJXXX.
An 9ves kansblydhen o spys a amser ow talleth an 1sa a vis Genver 801 hag ow tiwedh an 31ns a vis Kevardhu 900. Yma lies tus owth usya an lavar ma gans an keth styryans ha'n blydhynyow 800, h.y. an prys a-dhia 800 bys 899.
Bussy-Saint-Georges is in the Canton of Torcy, in the administrative département of Seine-et-Marne; its prefecture is Melun. The canton brings together 6 towns and 38,236 inhabitants. Before its creation in 1975, the city of Bussy was in the Canton of Lagny-sur-Marne, finally divided in smaller new subdivisions considering the growth of population.
WWF-Malaysia's Hawksbill Turtles Satellite Telemetry Website WWF-Malaysia's website featuring the journey of two satellite tracked hawksbill turtles and other information about hawksbill turtles in the region of Malacca, Malaysia.
Dah Sing Bank is a bank based in Hong Kong that has five branches in mainland China (primary mainland China branch in Shenzhen). The SWIFT code for the branch in Shanghai is DSBACNBXSHA.
Celebrating a Royal Icon at 90: Obi (Prof) Joseph Chike Edozien (The Asagba of Asaba), www.asaba.com, Information page about Asaba, looked up on 21 March 2016.
At youth international level, Carvajal won the 2011 European Championship with the under-19 team and the 2013 edition with the under-21 side. He made his senior debut in 2014.
Holly berries can cause vomiting and diarrhea. They are especially dangerous in cases involving accidental consumption by children attracted to the bright red berries. Ingestion of over 20 berries may be fatal to children.
Carvajal acted as backup to FC Barcelona's Martín Montoya at the 2013 UEFA European Under-21 Championship, playing in the 3–0 group stage win against the Netherlands as Spain went on to win the tournament. He was selected by full side manager Vicente del Bosque for his 30-man provisional squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup, being excused alongside all other Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid players from the warm-up game against Bolivia on 30 May due to the Champions League final, and being omitted from the final list the following day.
With the first breath after birth, the system changes suddenly. The pulmonary resistance is dramatically reduced ("pulmo" is from the Latin for "lung"). More blood moves from the right atrium to the right ventricle and into the pulmonary arteries, and less flows through the foramen ovale to the left atrium. The blood from the lungs travels through the pulmonary veins to the left atrium, increasing the pressure there. The decreased right atrial pressure and the increased left atrial pressure pushes the septum primum against the septum secundum, closing the foramen ovale, which now becomes the fossa ovalis. This completes the separation of the circulatory system into two halves, the left and the right.
Berghuis, A.M., Guillemette, J.G., Smith, M., and Brayer, G.D. (1994). Mutation of tyrosine-67 to phenylamaine in cytochrome c significantly alters the local heme environment. J. Mol. Biol. 235: 1326-1341.
It'd be great if you could join us, test the demo version, provide feedback and take part in the development of Wikidata. You can find all the relevant information including an FAQ and sign-up links for our on-wiki newsletter on the Wikidata page on Meta.
New Line Cinema (one-time video distributor of the original) acquired the rights to the film from co-rights holder StudioCanal, who will control the European rights, and Carpenter, who will serve as an executive producer and said, "Snake is one of my fondest creations. Kurt Russell did an incredible job, and it would be fun to see someone else try." Russell has commented on the remake and on the casting of Butler as Plissken, saying, "I will say that when I was told who was going to play Snake Plissken, my initial reaction was 'Oh, man!' [Russell winces]. I do think that character was quintessentially one thing. And that is, American."
Santa Ana Zegache is a toun an municipality in Oaxaca in sooth-wastren Mexico. The municipality covers a aurie o 26.79 km². It is pairt o the Ocotlán Destrict in the sooth o the Valles Centrales Region
Herman R1665 R1665 R1675 R1675 R1713a H1568 H1606 H1665 H1665 H1665 H1665 H1674 H1674 H1674 S1473a S1473a S1473a S1473a S1473b S1549a S1549b S1630a S1630a S1630b S1665a S1665a S1665b S1665b S1665b S1665b Si665b S1674a S1674a S1674a S1674b S1674b S1674b S1674b S1699 U1606 B1733 S1651a S1651b H1651b R1713c
Igala is a key Yoruboid language, spoken by 1.8 million people in the Niger-Benue confluence of central Nigeria, it is excised from the main body of Yoruboid languages to the west by Ebirra and the Edo languages. Igala is closely related to both Yoruba and Itsekiri languages.
Radhakrishnan, Sarvepalli (Editorial Chairman) (1956). The Cultural Heritage of India. Calcutta: The Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture. Second edition, four volumes, revised and enlarged, 1956 (volume IV).
Umble, Chad (2006), 20th century inventor to be honored with marker: Man who created automatic baler feeder died in Gap in 1971, Lancaster New Era, der 25 Matz.
The Reno News & Review (RN&R) was founded in 1995, when News & Review purchased the assets of Nevada Weekly, changing the name and creating the third News & Review paper. The Reno News & Review has a cumulative readership of roughly 90,000, according to the Winter 2015 Media Audit Report, run by International Demographics. The current editor is D. Brian Burghart, noted for his national project, Fatal Encounters, which uses crowd sourced data to estimate the number of killings by law enforcement officers in the United States. In 2016, the acting editor is Brad Bynum.
New World Marsupial Specialist Group 1996.Gracilinanus emiliae In: IUCN 2006. 2006 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Downloaded on 19 January 2007.
The Atlantic Ocean appears to be the second youngest of the world's oceans, after the Southern Ocean. Evidence indicates that it did not exist prior to 180 million years ago, when the continents that formed from the breakup of the ancestral supercontinent, Pangaea, were being rafted apart by the process of seafloor spreading. The Atlantic has been extensively explored since the earliest settlements were established along its shores. The Vikings, Portuguese, and Christopher Columbus were the most famous among its early explorers. After Columbus, European exploration rapidly accelerated, and many new trade routes were established. As a result, the Atlantic became and remains the major artery between Europe and the Americas (known as transatlantic trade). Numerous scientific explorations have been undertaken, including those by the German Meteor expedition, Columbia University's Lamont Geological Observatory, and the United States Navy Hydrographic Office.
Marija Gimbutas (ed.) 1976. Neolithic Macedonia as reflected by excavation at Anza, southeast Yugoslavia. Los Angeles: Institute of Archaeology, University of California, 1976. Monumenta archaeologica 1.
In 2004, the company replaced its baseline RISC OS 4.02 product with an updated version of the OS named RISC OS Adjust. This version of RISC OS was based on version 4.39, or Select Edition 3 Issue 4, of the company's Select scheme. In the same year, RISCOS Ltd agreed to produce a fully 32-bit-compatible version of RISC OS Adjust for Advantage Six's A9home product. The A9home was released in May 2006 after a 12-month beta-testing process, although the build of Adjust 32, namely RISC OS 4.42, is not feature-complete.
With K Norr and J Norr. "The threat of AIDS for women in developing countries". In F Cohen, JD Durham (Eds.) Women, children and HIV . New York: Springer (1993)
G. Stone: Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, s. 304 - 305
Template:Philadelphia Warriors 1946-47 BAA champions Template:Philadelphia Warriors 1955-56 NBA champions Template:Golden State Warriors 1974-75 NBA champions
Bi the 1960s, Pohang wis a smaw coastal ceety wi a population o 50,000. The next major development in Pohang's growthe came in 1968 wi the inauguration o the steel maker POSCO, an the local plant's commencement o production in 1972. The introduction o hivy industry tae the ceety brocht the local economy tae a blend o airn, steel, shipbiggin an fisheries throu the end o the 20t century.
In Oculus Enoch et Eliae, besides describing one of his inventions, an eyepiece for a Keplerian telescope, which left the image reverted, it also contained a long section on binocular telescopes, which greatly influenced other telescope-makers and opticians in the next century. His section on binocular telescopes is not illustrated, but the methods he describes became the standard construction techniques for many years.
Stetson Conn, Rose C. Engelman, and Byron Fairchild (1961). U.S. Army in World War II: Guarding the United States and Its Outposts. Center of Military History, United States Army. Retrieved on 2007-03-18.
March 10, 1963 - The town of Sakanoichi, and the village of Ōzai were merged with the town of Oita and Dainan (both from Ōita District) and the cities of Ōita and Tsurusaki to create the city of Ōita.
The Tropic o Capricorn (or Soothren tropic) is the circle o latitude that contains the subsolar pynt on the December (or soothren) solstice. It is thus the soothrenmaist latitude whaur the Sun can be directly owerheid. Its northren equivalent is the Tropic o Cancer.
The two twin sisters are Sonic Diver mechanics. Ranko has pink hair, and is very outgoing and friendly, and is charged with maintenance on Eika's Raijin. Haruko has blue hair, a calm stoic demeanor and is in charge of Karen's Fujin.
Dallman, Peter F. 1998. Plant Life in the World's Mediterranean Climates. California Native Plant Society, University of California Press, Berkeley, California.
Hildebrand, D.P., Ferrer, J.C., Tang, H.-L., Smith, M., and Mauk, A.G. (1996). Trans effects on cysteine ligation in the proximal His93Cys variant of horse heart myoglobin. Biocchemistry 34: 11598-11605.
Politician Without Political Party. A Zionist Appraisal of Jacob Robinson’s Activities in the Public Life of Lithuania // Eglė Bendikaitė ir Dirk Roland Haupt (sud.): The Life, Times and Work of Jokūbas Robinzonas–Jacob Robinson. St. Augustin: Academia, 2015, p. 39–66
She ard as ellan jeh chooid ny h-Iddaal ee yn Tardeen (Iddaalish: Sardegna, Sardeenish: Sardigna ny Sardinnya). She Cagliari preeu-valley ny Sardeen.
Our sun, “Enjuba Muwanga”, is also an eponym because it is named after the ancient Ganda Thinker, Muwanga, who was himself a student of Wanga and one of the ancient Philosophers of Buganda.
Beverly Hills Chihuahua 2 ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Alex Zamm ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Marcus Coloma, Erin Cahill, Susan Blakely, Lupe Ontiveros acting kiye the.
Don E. Wilson & DeeAnn M. Reeder (eds.). 2005. Mammal Species of the World. A Taxonomic and Geographic Reference (3rd ed), Johns Hopkins University Press, 2.142 pp. ([2])
"Storms in this house (The Glass House) are horrendous but thrilling. Glass shatters. Danger is one of the greatest things to use in architecture."
Kanazawa sits on the Sea o Japan, bordered bi the Japan Alps, Hakusan National Park an Noto Peninsula National Park. The ceety sits atween the Sai an Asano rivers. Its total aurie is 467.77 km².
Culiacán (Spaingie pronunciation: [kuljaˈkan]) is a ceety in northwastren Mexico, the caipital o the state o Sinaloa as well as the caipital o the municipality o Culiacán. Wi 675,773 indwallers in the ceety (census o 2010), an 858,638 in the municipality, it is the lairgest ceety in the state o Sinaloa. The municipality haes a tot aurie o 4,758 km2 (1,837 sq mi).
"If something is not soon done to prevent it [a split in Elkhart, Indiana between progressives and conservatives], the split will not stay in the Elkhart Church. If the matter is left alone, it will be like a wildfire. It will soon spread far and wide...Perhaps if the matter would be attended to soon an entire split throughout our churches might yet be prevented. But unless the sore is healed in Elkhart and that soon, and entire split is sure to follow(Weiler (aus Amos B. Hoover (1982)The Jonas Martin Era Persented in a Collection of Essays, Letters and Documents that Shed Light on the Mennonite Churches During the 50 Year Ministry of Jonas H. Martin, Denver, Pennsilfaani: Schreiwer, p. 912), 1993:2)."
The overlapping issue between ISO 9362 and ISO 13616 is discussed in the article International Bank Account Number (also called IBAN). The SWIFT network does not require a specific format for the transaction so the identification of accounts and transaction types is left to agreements of the transaction partners. In the process of the Single Euro Payments Area the European central banks have agreed on a common format based on IBAN and BIC including an XML-based transmission format for standardized transactions; the TARGET2 is a joint gross clearing system in the European Union that does not require the SWIFT network for transmission (see EBICS). The TARGET-directory lists all the BICs of the banks that are attached to the TARGET2-network being a subset of the SWIFT-directory of BICs.
Canar gu bheil an t-eilean glè bhrèagha. Mar eisimpleir, sgrìobh an t-ùghdar Mark Twain anns an leabhar "Following the Equator": "You gather the idea that Mauritius was made first and then heaven, and that heaven was copied after Mauritius".
The Glass House (1949) that he designed as his own residence in New Canaan, Connecticut was influenced by the Farnsworth House, built shortly before it by Mies van der Rohe, an influence which Johnson never denied. Johnson had curated an exhibit of Mies van der Rohe's at the Museum of Modern Art in 1947, featuring a model of the glass Farnsworth House.
Kwi-zoology, i-cannibalism kuxa isilwanyana sizondla ngesinye isilwanyana esikwafana naso. Ukuzondla ngesilwanyana esifana kwaneso sizondlayo okanye singathi ukubonakalisa ubu-cannibalism yinto exhaphakileyo kwintlalo yendalo yezilwanyana kwaye li-1,500 lezilwanyana ezilolu hlobo eselithe lashicilelwa. Oku akwenziwa kukushokoxeka kokutya okanye yindlala, njengoko bekukholelwa njalo ngaphambili, koko kuxhaphakile phantsi kweemeko zendalo kwiintlobo ngeentlobo zezilwanyana. Cannibalism seems to be especially prevalent in aquatic communities, in which up to approximately 90% of the organisms engage in cannibalism at some point of the life cycle. Cannibalism is also not restricted to carnivorous species, but is commonly found in herbivores and detritivores.
Pluma Hidalgo is a toun an municipality in Oaxaca in sooth-wastren Mexico. The municipality covers an aurie o 179.9 km². It is pairt o the Pochutla Destrict in the east o the Costa Region. The name o "Pluma Hidalgo" wis given acause thare is a sma muntain locatit on the municipality an up the muntain thare is a cloud that seemit like a feather, in Spainyie "pluma". Hidalgo wis given acause this place wis foondit whan the unthirldom battle wis on, which began bi Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla. Sierra Madre del Sur goes throu this municipality which is characterisit bi Cerro de la Pluma, Cerro León an Cerro de las Nieves. In this region the wather is humid acause o the muntains. The normal wather conditions are aboot 20°C, an in simmer the rains are abundant. As o 2005, the municipality haed a total population o 3314.
The word fetus (plural fetuses) is from the Latin fetus, meaning offspring, bringing forth, hatching of young. It has Indo-European roots related to sucking or suckling, from the Aryan prefix bheu-, meaning "To come into being".
Greetings! The Project Grants program is currently accepting proposals for funding. There is just over a week left to submit before the October 11 deadline. If you have ideas for software, offline outreach, research, online community organizing, or other projects that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others who have great ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help turning your idea into a grant request.
Inschefeld (the field immediately surrounding the large springs of the Robert K. Moser estate in Trexlertown, where an "arrow point factory" was located at one time, and where many chips, unfinished as well as finished, unfinished and broken points are still found)
Wilson Hunter, Sir William; Sutherland Cotton, James; Sir Richard Burn, Sir William Stevenson Meyer. Great Britain India Office. The Imperial Gazetteer of India (en anglès). Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1908.
Greig Laidlaw (born 12 October 1985) is a Scots rugby union player. He plays as a scrum-hauf, currently wi Gloucester. He haes been the caiptain o the Scots naitional team syne 2011.
Morris L. Chestnut (ojoibi January 1, 1969) je osere filmu ati telifisan ara Amerika. O gbajumo fun isere re bi ewe to ti bimo, Ricky Baker ninu filmu odun 1991 Boyz n the Hood, bi oko to fe segbeyawo Lance Sullivan ninu filmu odun 1999 The Best Man, bi Tracy Reynolds, agbaboolu NBA ninu filmu odun 2002 Like Mike, ati bi Visitor Ryan ninu ere telifisan odun 2009 TV V.
2000-09-18, ScienceDaily: Scientists Unravel Ancient Evolutionary History Of Photosynthesis Quote: "...gene-swapping was common among ancient bacteria early in evolution..."
Am an ex Yalava Indian School pupil - from 1962 to 1968. Head teachers included Mr Ram Prasad, Mr Franklin and Mr Raghua Nand. Was a very well kept and great school then, been to see the school two years ago, felt it lost the shine and pride of yester years.
Jacques Rupnik, "In Search of Central Europe: Ten Years Later", in Gardner, Hall, with Schaeffer, Elinore & Kobtzeff, Oleg, (ed.), Central and South-central Europe in Transition, Westport, Connecticut: Praeger, 2000 (translated form French by Oleg Kobtzeff)
Some personnel is shared between the two units; for instance, certain CBS play-by-play announcers (e.g. Don Criqui, Dick Enberg and Ian Eagle) call select Sunday afternoon games throughout the first several weeks of the season on CBS and then switch to Thursday and Saturday night games on Westwood One. Boomer Esiason, who is an analyst for CBS' The NFL Today, called color commentary on Westwood One's Monday Night Football (and would often advertise the latter on the former, as "the Monday night game on Westwood One"); conversely, Steve Tasker, a color commentator for CBS's Sunday afternoon coverage, served as an analyst on The NFL on Westwood One shows.
Answer This! ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Christopher Farah ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Christopher Gorham, Arielle Kebbel, Nelson Franklin, Evan Jones acting kiye the.
7 March - Ba ke football team, Govind Park, Ba me, Lautoka ke 1-0 aur 4-2 se harae ke 17th Champion versus Champion tournament ke jiit liis.
The botijas contained two openings, one at the top and one of the side, and were blown into to create bass notes. To crate specific pitches, they were filled to specific levels with water. Another technique includes inserting a reed into the opening while the player blows into the reed.
You might also be interested in the idea to create a central Wikipedia Library where approved editors would have access to all participating resource donors. Add your feedback to the Community Fellowship proposal. Apologies for the English message (translate here). Go sign up :) --Ocaasi (talk) 16 d'Aout 2012 à 02:22 (UTC)
In the 2009 Conseil d'Etat/Staatsrat election a total of 1,168 votes were cast, of which 63 or about 5.4% were invalid. The voter participation was 65.8%, which is much more than the cantonal average of 54.67%. In the 2007 Swiss Council of States election a total of 1,147 votes were cast, of which 64 or about 5.6% were invalid. The voter participation was 65.7%, which is much more than the cantonal average of 59.88%.
An 20ves kansblydhen o spys a amser ow talleth an 1sa a vis Genver 1901 hag ow tiwedh an 31ns a vis Kevardhu 2000. Yma lies tus owth usya an lavar ma gans an keth styryans ha'n blydhynyow 1900, h.y. an prys a-dhia 1900 bys 1999.
Santiago Nundiche is a toun an municipality in Oaxaca in sooth-wastren Mexico. The municipality covers an aurie o km². It is pairt o the Tlaxiaco Destrict in the sooth o the Mixteca Region.
Black Holes: Gravity’s Relentless Pull — Award-winning interactive multimedia Web site about the physics and astronomy of black holes from the Space Telescope Science Institute
Many of Matisse's sculptures were modeled in clay and later cast in bronze, a process which allows for multiple copies to be made. Because of that, many of these works exist in multiple copies and are in the collections of multiple museums.
Notifications help on mediawiki.org. This page can be hosted after translation on mediawiki.org or we can localize it to this Wikipedia. You do not have to have an account to translate on mediawiki, but single-user login will create it for you there if you follow the link.
Wikis are generally designed with the philosophy of making it easy to correct mistakes, rather than making it difficult to make them. Thus, while wikis are very open, they provide a means to verify the validity of recent additions to the body of pages. The most prominent, on almost every wiki, is the "Recent Changes" page—a specific list numbering recent edits, or a list of edits made within a given time frame. Some wikis can filter the list to remove minor edits and edits made by automatic importing scripts ("bots").
Ta Skeerey Rosien stiurit as reirit ec Barrantee Skeerey Rosien. T'ad çheet ry-cheilley ec cruinnaghtyn ayns Halley Balley Phesson. She Stanley Ditchfield Clucas Captan ny Skeerey, as she Adrian Tinkler Caairliagh ny Barrantee.
The district had 75 km gravel and 30 km dry weather roads, a semi-automatic telephone and regular post office. About 4.2% of the rural and 21.2% of the urban populations were supplied with potable water. Springs, wells, ponds and rivers are major sources of drinking water for about 95.8% of the district's total population. Hydro electric light and 3 fuel stations were available at Fugnan-Bira town. Firewood, charcoal, animals dung and agri-wastes are major sources of domestic energy supply in the district. Gursum district had one kindergarten (non-government), 26 elementary, 2 junior and one senior schools, holding 6,569 students 1,752 females) and 240 teaching staffs (75 females) in the indicated year. About 24.4% of the total enrolled students had left the school before the end of academic year. Students' participation rates in elementary and junior secondary schools were 19.8% and 6.0% respectively. Similarly, a health center, 4 clinics and a rural drug vendor with 2 doctors, 5 nurses, a lab technician, 27 health assistants and 12 beds, a veterinary clinic with 7 veterinary personnel and a Commercial Bank were available in the district.
1965: Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines or How I Flew from London to Paris in 25 hours 11 minutes, vum Ken Annakin mam Stuart Whitman, Sarah Miles, Gert Fröbe, Jean-Pierre Cassel an Terry-Thomas
Mascots have been a tradition at the Olympic Games since the 1968 Winter Olympics in Grenoble, France. The Athens games had two official mascots: Athiná and Phévos (pronounced in Greek, Athina and Fivos). The sister and brother were named after Athena, the goddess of wisdom, strategy and war, and Phoebus, the god of light and music, respectively. They were inspired by the ancient daidala, which were dolls that had religious connotations as well as being toys.
Oslech kaide Suttkechea Pustokant melltat (Sutt. 25 – 31; 35-40). He nem’-kaide Moizesachea kalla thaun ietat, jedna to porjek oronneantlean haddtalo (Sutt. 20/34; Lev. 1/1; Lok. 1/1). Dekhun Moizesachea odhikara khal te ietat. Adle kaide asat, pordesant thaun ietoch hea kallache. Iadniki kaide, Dusrea Mondirache, Lev. 1-7 ovesvoramnim melltat. Aaronachi iadniki makhnni, nitollsanniche kaide, adlea kallar thaun ietat, ani “Farikponnacho Dis” – hea disak toiari kortat. Povitrtaechea Gronthant (Lev. 17-26) rajki kallacheo khub riti melltat. Povitrtaechi khobor purteponnim ekunnisvea (19) ovesvorant melltat, ani sot’tavisavea (27) ovesvorant ek addavnni asa, ti mondirak kel’lea denneanchi khobor korta.
અણ્ણા હઝારે also said that if the bill was not passed, then he will call a mass nation-wide agitation. He called his movement as "second struggle for independence" and he will continue the fight.
Amirul Mu’minin Sultan Muhammadu Sa’adu Abubakar III, the Sultan of Sokoto, at: "The Muslim500: The world's most influentian muslims", looked up on 20 February 2016.
"The Great Capitulator" is exactly 2:49. At the end o the sang, a lang silence follaes frae 2:50 tae 9:56. At 9:57 a soondbit comes fadin in o a fan speakin o his attitude tae metal muisic, mentionin baunds like Krabathor or Immortal. His speech is then translatit in Czech. It is the last album in a trilogy tae featur this kynd o soondbites, wi the ithers being Leaders Not Followers EP an Enemy of the Music Business.
Ferrer, J.C., Turano, P., Banci, L., Bertini, I., Morris, I.K., Smith, K.M., Smith, M., Mauk, A.G. (1994). Active site coordination chemistry of the cytochrome c peroxidase Asp235Ala variant: Spectroscopic and functional characterization. Biochem. 33: (25) 7819-7829.
Hein, James L: Theory of Computation. Sudbury, MA: Jones & Bartlett, 1996. A gentle introduction to the field, appropriate for second-yéar undergraduate computer science students.
Juanv / John 1 : 29 - Dusrea disa, Juanvan Jezuk apnna-xim ieta to dekhlo ani mhollem: Polleiat, ho Devacho Menddro, sonvsarachem pap kaddta to! / The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world
Cambodia - Cameroon - Canada - Cape Verde - Central African Republic - Chad - Chile - People's Republic of China - Republic of China (Taiwan) - Colombia - Comoros - Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Zaire) - Republic of the Congo - Costa Rica - Côte d'Ivoire - Croatia - Cuba - Cyprus - Czech Republic
When acquiring products and companies for Google, Page asked whether the business acquisition passed the toothbrush test as an initial qualifier, asking the question "Is it something you will use once or twice a day, and does it make your life better?". This approach looked for usefulness above profitability, and long-term potential over near-term financial gain, which has been noted as rare in business acquiring processes.
Rio Gavin Ferdinand (born 7 November 1978) is an Inglis umwhile professional fitbawer wha played as a centre-back. He played 81 times for the Ingland naitional fitbaa team atween 1997 an 2011, an wis a member o three FIFA Warld Cup squads. He is regairdit bi mony tae be ane o Ingland's greatest ever players an he is ane o the maist decoratit Inglis fitbawers o aw time.
Bayley, M; Crossley, D; Ponting «Metals and Metalworking: A research framework for Archaeometallurgy» (en anglès). The Historical Metallurgy Society, Occasional Publication No 6, 2008.
The son o Vasak IV, Sembat, that receivit the fiefdom frae Vayots Dzor. Chahaponk (Jahuk) govrened frae 887 till sometime efter 920. He revoltit in 903 against the Bagratid Sembat I, refusin tae pay him taxes. Acause o this, he wis assaultit bi the prince o Vaspurakan, Sargis-Ashot. Sembat submittit, wis forgiven an marriet tae the sister o the prince o Vaspurakan, receivin the ceety an destrict o Nakhchivan, which in 902 wis upset wi the Kaysites or Qaisids.
The event was broadcast internationally online, through Brave's official website and Youtube channel, for free. In addition, the card was also broadcast in Bahrain, and in selected cable companies, through Bahrain TV.
Robert Stevenson FRSE, FGS, FRAS, FSA Scot, MWS, MInstCE (8 Juin 1772 – 12 Julie 1850) wis a Scots ceevil ingineer an famed designer an bigger o lichthooses.
Lynch, John and Crowley, Terry. 2001. Languages of Vanuatu: A New Survey and Bibliography. Pacific Linguistics. Canberra: Australian National University.
At one time he designed a boot suit, which comprised a pair of thigh-length boots, which carried on to join at the crotch, and then upwards to become an entire catsuit with a hood.
At the time of the company's formation, it was noted that having access to the source code could facilitate removal of the OS's dependence on Acorn's proprietary chips. This simplifies entry to the hardware market by new companies.
AtomAge attracted a certain amount of attention when the police decided to prosecute the publisher, Sutcliffe, in the mid-1980s, for obscenity. Despite protest from both fetishists and defenders of civil liberties alike, Sutcliffe pleaded guilty. His stock and photos were seized and destroyed and the publications temporarily closed. The shame may well have contributed to his death.
Slovene Governmental Commission for the Standardisation of Geographical Names - in the first column are names as proposed by the commission, in the second column are short official names, in the third column are long official names. Accessed on 7 October 2005.
The Koryu's Chef. He is a hard taskmaster, giving his assistant, Takumi Hayami, plenty of work to do. However, the Chef develops a fatherly relationship with Elise, often pampering her and preparing her favourite dishes. This is because Elise looks very like his granddaughter.
Feyisa Demie. Historical Challenges in the Development of the Oromo Language and Some Agenda for Future Research, Journal of Oromo Studies, Volume 3, Numbers 1 & 2, July 1996
"The realization of self-government was something new in the world; life without kings had not yet been dared by any great society. Out of this proud sense of independence, individual and collective, came a powerful stimulus to every enterprise of the Greeks; it was their liberty that inspired them to incredible accomplishments in arts and letters, in science and philosophy." (p. 233)
Telugu (Inglis pronunciation: /ˈtɛlᵿɡuː/; తెలుగు telugu, IPA: [t̪el̪uɡu]) is a Dravidian leid an is the anly leid ither than Hindi, Inglis an Bengali that is predominantly spoken in mair nor ane Indian state, bein the primary leid in Andhra Pradesh an Telangana, as well as in the toun o Yanam whaur it is an aa an offeecial leid.
Rehren, Th., Schneider, J. & Bartels, Chr., 1999. Medieval lead-silver smelting in the Siegerland, West Germany. Historical Metallurgy 33, 73-84.
Bishapisha kana mapishapisha (1. Mix-up. Confusion). Mombe kana dzaneta dzomira, dzimwe dzichiringa mberi, dzimwe kushure, rava bishapisha: when tired-oxen stop, some facing forwards, some backwards, that is a mix-up.
Regarding the participation by region, around 35% of the attendees came from the Latin America and Caribbean of which 29% were from the host country (Burezili (Brazil)).
It is a popular misconception that he designed the leather outfits for The Avengers. He did not They were designed by Michael Whittaker for Honor Blackman and by John Bates for Diana Rigg, although they may have been made in his workshop. He did design some costumes for the stage version of The Avengers which appeared later. He also designed the leather catsuit worn by Marianne Faithfull in the 1968 film The Girl on a Motorcycle which may have been influenced by the style of The Avengers.
Orner grew up in Melbourne, Australia and was educated at Mt Scopus Memorial College and Monash University, where she obtained a Bachelor of Arts in 1993.
The auncient ceety o Babylon in present-day Babylon Province wis the caipital o auncient Babylonie, situatit on the Euphrates river sooth o Baghdad, Iraq.
Still Mine ek 2012 mein bana English film hain. Yea film Canada mein Michael McGowan ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein James Cromwell, Chuck Shamata, Geneviève Bujold, Ronan Rees acting kiye the.
The town of Bulacan, being the first capital of the province, was the hub of economic activities and the inhabitants enjoyed excellent trade with Manila, primarily due to its proximity to the city and accessibility through its wide and navigable river.
Al-Harbi Al-Ahmadi, Awwad Ahmad (January 2003), "Acehnese coda condition: An optimality-theoretic account", Umm Al-Qura University Journal of Educational and Social Sciences and Humanities (Umm Al-Qura University) 15 (1): 9–21 Islamic calendar: Dhu al-Qi'dah 1423AH. Archive
Se Īrisca Sǣ has undergone a series of dramatic changes over the last 20,000 years swā the last ice age endode and was replaced by warmer conditions. At the height of the ice age the central part of the modern sea was probably a long freshwater lake. As the ice retreated 10 000 years ago the lake re-connected to the sea, becoming brackish and then fully saline once again.
The convening of Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti (IGF) was announced on 18 Nyakanga 2006, with the inaugural meeting of the Urubuga being held in Athens, Greece from 30 October to 2 Ugushyingo 2006.
In politics, a caipital ceety (cried heidtoun, heidsteid or poleetical caipital anaw — awtho the latter haes a seicont meinin based on anither sense o "caipital") is the heid ceetie or toun associatit wi a kintra's govrenment. It is awmaist aye the ceetie that pheesicalie hauds the offices an meetin steids o the seat o govrenment an is fixt bi law.
Sandakan Memorial Park Lynette Silver, who began assisting the Office of Australian War Graves (OAWG) with the development of the Sandakan Memorial Park in 1995, has been involved in a number of initiatives since that time.
Igama layo ngumxube wamagama amabini, elithi wiki, igama laseHawai elimele 'ukukhawuleza' kunye nelithi and encyclopedia. Because the word was made by combining parts of those words, it is a portmanteau.
Va reill Sostynagh aaniartit as bishit 'sy 16-oo eash, ansherbee, as ren eh shen leeideil gys aaghoaill Hiudaragh Nerin. Va ruegys begnagh slane cooilleenit roish toshiaght y 17-oo eash lurg Caggey ny Nuy Bleeaney as Immeeaght ny h-Eearlaghyn. Va'n gurneil shen niartit car ny caggaghyn (lheid as Caggaghyn ny Tree Reeriaghtyn as y Caggey Illiamagh) as y choloinaghey Sostynagh as Albinagh (Plandailyn Nerin) 'sy 17-oo eash. T'eh er credjal dy hooar 20,000 sidooryn Yernagh baase car Caggey ny Tree Reeriaghtyn, as t'eh oolit dy hooar 200,000 shivoilee baase myr eiyrtys er cochiangle jeh gonney, scughey, gastid cheylley as paitt car y chaggey. Va 16,000 shivoilee elley prowit as shiaullit myr sleabyn gys ny h-Injyn Sheear. Ta screeuderyn shennaghys ennagh gooley dy hooar seose gys lieh-chooid dy sleih-earroo Nerin baase myr eiyrtys jeh'n chaggey.
Ivan Ponting: Sandy Jardine: Majestic footballer whose service for Rangers and Scotland saw him hailed as one of his country’s most revered players (ang.). independent.co.uk, 2014-04-25. [dostęp 2014-04-26].
The Paleozoic Era ended with the largest mass extinction in Earth's history, the Permian-Triassic Extinction Event. The effects of this catastrophe were so devastating that it took life on land 30 million years to recover. Recovery of life in the sea may have been much faster.
Setturday is the day o the week atween Friday an Sunday. Its name is the ae ane amang the names o days, in that it cams fae the Roman god Saturn, while the ither sax names is derived fae Saxon gods.
Semi-conductor devices, electronic timepieces, electronic components, wire harness, floppy disk drives, photographic equipment, garments, furniture, camera paraphernalia, car stereos, audio/video equipment, carageenan, fashion accessories, coconut oil, frozen shrimps, vehicle / machinery parts.
Ta blaaghyn baney-jiarg echey ayns umbyl. T'ad goll er pollnaghey liorish shellanyn. Ta ny messyn echey caulgagh, as t'ad croghey er eaddee as fynney dys skeaylley ny rassinyn echey. Ta duillagyn babbanagh-duillageenagh echey.
Powell, J.E. (2003). „Revision of South American titanosaurid dinosaurs: palaeobiological, palaeobiogeographical and phylogenetic aspects”. Records of the Queen Victoria Museum 111, 1–173. o.
Ender's Game ek 2013 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Gavin Hood ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Asa Butterfield, Harrison Ford, Hailee Steinfeld, Abigail Breslin acting kiye the.
The fact that beings can show up, either as meaningful in a context or as meaningless in the experience of Angst, depends on a prior phenomenon: that beings can show up at all. Heidegger calls the showing up of beings, truth, which he defines as unconcealment rather than correctness or correspondence. This "truth of beings", their self-revelation, involves a more fundamental kind of truth, the "disclosure of being in which the being of beings is unconcealed.", in Greek, aletheia.
The Don (Roushie: Дон) is ane o the major rivers o Roushie. It rises in the toun o Novomoskovsk 60 kilometres sootheast tae Tula, sootheast o Moscow, an flows for a distance o aboot 1,950 kilometres (1,220 mi) frae the Sea o Azov.
Samuel Willenberg (born 16t Febriweer 1923 in Częstochowa, Polan an deid 19 Febriweer 2016 in Tel Aviv-Jaffa, Israel) wis a Pole-Israeli ingineer, penter an sculptor. He wis the last liver fae the Treblinka daith camp.
Allitt, John Stewart. 1991. Donizetti—in the light of romanticism and the teaching of Johann Simon Mayr. Shaftesbury, Dorset, UK: Element Books.
In 1997, the Scots fowk voted ti hae a new pairlament, estaiblisht bi the UK govrenment in the Scotland Act 1998. The nou devolv'd Scots Pairlament haes been gien the pouer ti govren the laund on maist Scots maiters, but haesna ower mukkil pouer wi taxes, awtho it dis hae the pouer ti chynge the UK incum tax rate bi 3p in the poond.
The Dowland Project: Romaria , Love songs, chants and motets from 12th century to the present, ECM "New Series" 476 5780 [CD] - ( Firminus Caron: Kyrie: Jesus autem transiens )
Li football-clubes Dundee United e FC Dundee, quel lude in li Scotish Premiership, have su hem in li cité. Anc li hockey sur gazon-club Grove Menzieshill Hockey Club have su hem in li cité.
The Fareham urban destrict wis reconstitutit as a non-metropolitan destrict bi the Local Govrenment Act 1972 on 1 Aprile 1974 an gained burgh status.
Hearst and her dogs have participated in dog shows, and on February 16, 2015, her Shih Tzu, Rocket, won the "Toy" category at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show at Madison Square Garden. At the 2017 show, Hearst's French bulldog, Tuggy, won best of breed, and Rubi won best of opposite sex.
The fossil record indicates that the Ilex lineage was already widespread prior to the end of the Cretaceous period. Based on the molecular clock, the common ancestor of most of the extant species probably appeared during the Eocene, about 50 million years ago, suggesting that older representatives of the genus belong to now extinct branches. The laurel forest covered great areas of the Earth during the Paleogene, when the genus was more prosperous. This type of forest extended during the Neogene, more than 20 million years ago. Most of the last remaining temperate evergreen forests are believed to have disappeared about 10,000 years ago at the end of the Pleistocene. Many of the then-existing species with the strictest ecological requirements became extinct because they could not cross the barriers imposed by the geography, but others found refuge as a species relict in coastal enclaves, archipelagos, and coastal mountains sufficiently far from areas of extreme cold and aridity and protected by the oceanic influence.
Yma dew linen aral a vos a-dhyworth Karesk - an Linen Avocet ha'n Linen Trethvor - mes nyns yns i hensi-horn kemeneth, byttegyns yns i komprehendyes yn avonsyansow "Hyns-horn Teg" gans an Keskowethyans ha hensi-horn ertach an pow.
Farrington, D. P. (1996a) Later life outcomes of truants in the Cambridge Study. In Berg, I. and Nursten, J. (Eds.) Unwillingly to School (4th ed.). London: Gaskell (pp. 96-118).
The Boy Mir ek 2011 mein bana Dari, English film hain. Yea film UK mein Phil Grabsky ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein N/A acting kiye the.
Page also ventured into hardware and Google unveiled the Chromebook in May 2012. The hardware product was a laptop that ran on a Google operating system, Chrome OS.
Gifford was unable to gain an athletic scholarship to the University of Southern California (USC) because of his low grade point average in high school, so he played a season of football for Bakersfield Junior College. While at Bakersfield, he made the Junior College All-America team and earned the grades needed to enroll at USC. At USC, Gifford was named an All-American after rushing for 841 yards on 195 carries during his final season. He graduated from USC in 1952.
Illinois 72 runs concurrently for one block with Illinois Route 83 in Elk Grove Township, and Illinois Route 47 and U.S. Highway 20 by Starks, an unincorporated village approximately 60 miles (97 km) from Chicago. The latter is a Wrong-way concurrency, where one can be driving both west on Illinois 72 and east on U.S. 20 at the same time. West from Chicago, Illinois 72 largely parallels Interstate 90 until Starks, crossing over and under the highway six times without an intersection. On a larger scale, it is the main east–west artery to Chicago between Interstate 90 and Illinois Route 64.
Produtôr(s): Alex da Kid, Mr. Bangladesh, Calvin Harris, Carl Sturken and Evan Rogers (co-exec.), Chase & Status, Cirkut, Da Internz, Dr. Luke, Ester Dean, Gareth McGrillen, Hit-Boy, No I.D., Priscilla Renea, Rihanna (exec.), Rob Swire, Stargate, The-Dream
1739 (MDCCXXXIX) wis a common year stairtin on Fuirsday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter D), the 1739t year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 739t year o the 2nt millennium, the 39t year o the 18t century, an the 10t an last year o the 1730s decade atween 1583 an 1929 an wi Julian Value: 1739 is 11 calendar days difference, which continued tae be uised till the complete conversion o the Gregorian calendar wis entirely duin in 1929.
Green, Constance McLaughlin ; Thompson, Harry C. ; Roots, Peter C. The Ordnance Department: Planning Munitions for War. (англ.) — Washington, D.C.: U.S. Dept. of the Army, Office of the Chief of Military History, 1955. — 542 p.
Hazare, Anna (1997). Ralegan Siddhi: a veritable transformation. Translated by B.S. Pendse. Ralegan Siddhi Pariwar Prakashan,. Retrieved 7 April 2011.
Few Options, All Bad ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein George A. Pappy Jr. ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Kenny Johnson, Erin Daniels, David Marciano, Brad Dourif acting kiye the.
San Giovanni Valdarno is a toun an comune in the province o Arezzo, Tuscany, central Italy, locatit in the valley o the Arno River. It wis oreeginally cried Castel S. Giovanni.
There is much variation in the growth of the fetus. When fetal size is less than expected, that condition is known as intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) also called fetal growth restriction (FGR); factors affecting fetal growth can be maternal, placental, or fetal.
International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature. 2003. Opinion 2027 (Case 3010). Usage of 17 specific names based on wild species which are pre-dated by or contemporary with those based on domestic animals (Lepidoptera, Osteichthyes, Mammalia): conserved. Bull.Zool.Nomencl., 60:81-84.
In teepografie, a teepface (an aa kent as font faimily) is a set o ane or mair fonts each componed o glyphs that share common design featurs.
In August 2011, Estonia finished its international fixtures for the year, by becoming Baltic Champions in a final win over the Lithuanian Cricket Team.
Endangered marine species include the manatee, seals, sea lions, turtles, and whales. Drift net fishing is killing dolphins, albatrosses and other seabirds (petrels, auks), hastening the decline of fish stocks and contributing to international disputes. There is municipal sludge pollution off the eastern United States, southern Brazil, and eastern Argentina; oil pollution in the Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; and industrial waste and municipal sewage pollution in the Baltic Sea, North Sea, and Mediterranean Sea.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
Voulzy haed an internaitional hit wi the sang Rockollection. The French leerics wur interspersed wi some lines frae classic rock hits efter the chorus. His major French hits include 'Le Soleil Donne' – sung in French, Inglis an Spainyie – and 'Les Nuits Sans Kim Wilde' ('Nichts athoot Kim Wilde'), inspired bi the chairt-toppin Inglis sangster.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 13,335 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 56.72 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 8401.
When Bragança Cunha was arrested in 1946, A.G. Tendulkar became the president of the Goa Congress and organised a meeting in Londa (outside Goa).प्रारूप:Citation needed Dr Julião Menezes studied in Goa and after finishing Lyceum, (Portuguese high school) he attended Berlin University in the 1920s and graduated in medicine – MD. He also took courses in Indology in Berlin. It was there that he met Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia, who was studying at the same University. Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia and Dr Julião Menezes remained in contact and Dr. Menezes even provided him shelter after the ‘Do or Die’ call given by Mahatma Gandhi. It is believed that Dr. Lohia wanted to hide in Goa but decided against it following counselling by Dr. Menezes who was worried that British agents were active in Goa as well. The two met again in 1946 after Dr. Lohia’s release from prison in Lahore where he was taken after his arrest in Mumbai. Dr. Lohia had visited Dr. Menezes for a medical examination in Bombay where the latter advised the former that he rest and invited him to his house in Assolna, Goa., Accepting the invitation, Dr. Lohia arrived in Goa on 10 June 1946 and stayed at the residence of Menezes at Assolna, where the two stalwarts discussed the situation prevailing in Goa during that period and decided to defy the ban on public meetings imposed by the Portuguese Government. This was the first civil disobedience movement against the then 435-year-old Portuguese rule. The news of Lohia’s arrival spread among Goans and Dr. Menezes’ place in Assolna became the meeting place for Goan intellectuals and political activists, who wanted to consult Dr. Lohia and Dr. Menezes. On 15 June 1946, Dr. Menezes and Dr. Lohia addressed a gathering of the people in Panjim but the police did not intervene and stop the meeting even as they were posted at the place where the meeting took place. Buoyed with the success of the meeting, the two entered Margao square in a horse carriage. On 18 June with thousands of men and women welcoming them and chanting their names "Dr Lohia-ki Jai! Dr Julião Menezes-ki-Jai!". Dr. Lohia's and Dr. Menezes were arrested. The colonial administration, which was caught off guard, failed to subdue the fervor of the crowd. Julião and Lohia were arrested and removed at the dead of night to the Panjim police station. The news of their arrest spread throughout Goa, and the people demonstrated in most of the towns. In Margão, next morning, the citizens drove in procession, and in the evening, they gathered in front of the Câmara. Even though the troops sought to disperse the crowd, they squatted resolutely on the ground, shouting in unison at the top of their voices, which resounded throughout the town: Jai Hind!! Dr. Lohiako shodd do! Dr. Julião Menezesko shodd do!
Rainier - Rajneeshpuram - Redland - Redmond - Reedsport - Reedville - Remote - Rhododendron - Rice - Rice Hill - Richland - Rickreall - Riddle - Riley - Ritter - Rivergrove - Riverside - Riverton - Rockaway Beach - RockcreekCitakan:GR - Rogue River - Rome - Rose Lodge - Roseburg - Rowena - Roy - Ruch - Rufus
Since the ovules are protected by carpels and integuments, it takes something special for fertilisation to happen. Angiosperms have pollen grains comprising just three cells. One cell is responsible for drilling down through the integuments, and creating a passage for the two sperm cells to flow down. The megagametophyte has just seven cells; of these, one fuses with a sperm cell, forming the nucleus of the egg itself, and another other joins with the other sperm, and dedicates itself to forming a nutrient-rich endosperm. The other cells take auxiliary roles. This process of "double fertilisation" is unique and common to all angiosperms.
Bhakta Prasad Gaire, Lalita Subedi, "Phytochemistry, Pharmacology and Medicinal Properties of Phyllanthus emblica Linn." in Chinese Journal of Integrative Medicine (Ianuarii 2015)
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, Mary J. Blige, Ella Fitzgerald, Smokey Robinson, Donna Summer, and Blue Magic as her musical influences. Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics alike, Ashanti has written/co-written the bulk of all her music. She is currently working on her own publishing company entitled Written Entertainment. She released her fourth studio album entitled The Declaration on June 3, 2008 and is currently in the studio working on her fifth. She also performed the charity tune "Just Stand Up" alongside 15 other female singers for the "Stand Up to Cancer" live television special which helped raise $100 million dollars for cancer research.
Hagen, H. A.. Synopsis of the Neuroptera of North America. With a list of the South American species.. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections: no. : 1-347., 1861.
The population o the canton (as o 31 December 2015) is 484,736., the population includit 163,951 foreigners, or aboot 37.4 % o the total population.
“Political Islam in Indonesia” in Religion and Politics in South and Southeast Asia, ed. Ishtiaq Ahmed (London and New York: Routledge, 2011), 136-156.
Their biggest success was winning the 2016 Cyberathlete Professional League World Championships after an extremely close final with X3 (a forerunner to Team 3D). The Gobus struggled to find a sponsor, and as a result, joined the prominent e-sports organization SK Gaming and were known by the names SK GOBU and later GOBSK. At SK, they continued their success. The prize money from their tournament victories in 2016 totalled approximately US$170,000, and every CPL event that year.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 33,286 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 310.00 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 2210.
The eventual results of "Kennedy," which were progressively rolled out from June 2011 until January 2013, were described by The Verge technology publication as focused upon "refinement, white space, cleanliness, elasticity, usefulness, and most of all simplicity." The final products were aligned with Page's aim for a consistent suite of products that can "move fast," and "Kennedy" was called a "design revolution" by Duarte. Page's "UXA" (user/graphics interface) design team then emerged from the "Kennedy" project, tasked with "designing and developing a true UI framework that transforms Google's application software into a beautiful, mature, accessible and consistent platform for its users." Unspoken of in public, the small UXA unit was designed to ensure that "Kennedy" became an "institution."
The African Queen ek 1951 mein bana English, German, Swahili film hain. Yea film USA, UK mein John Huston ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Humphrey Bogart, Katharine Hepburn, Robert Morley, Peter Bull acting kiye the.
Many people also believe the strong, sharp flavor and scent of Mint can be used as a mild decongestant for illnesses such as the common cold.
These organizational divisions should not be considered concrete since the organizational structures will continue to be adjusted and to be changed until they fit into the needs of the members.
Breeding habits are little known. The snake is oviparous and six to twelve elongated eggs are laid. Gravid females have been obtained in May and June and hatchlings in June. In Bangkok, according to Smith, mating takes place in June. Hatchlings measure 114–152 mm (4½ to 6 in) long, while the smallest gravid female recorded was 1,093 mm (3 ft 7 in) long.
On 12 April 2008 East Timor signed a contract for two new Chinese-built 43 metre Type-62 class patrol boats. These ships will replace the Albatroz class ships and be used to protect East Timor's fisheries. The contract for the ships also involves 30 to 40 East Timorese personnel being trained in China. It has also been reported that East Timor's shore infrastructure will also be updated as part of the acquisition of the Type-62 class ships. The two new patrol boats arrived from China in June 2010 and were commissioned as the Jaco Class on the eleventh of the month. The craft have been named Jaco and Betano.
Randall, J.E., G.R. Allen and R.C. Steene. Fishes of the Great Barrier Reef and Coral Sea.. University of Hawaii Press, Honolulu, Hawaii. 506 p., 1990.
Peurliesañ e soñjer eo bet levezonet oberenn Ballard gant ar pezh a c'houzañvas pa oa bugel. Martin Amis as skrivas en doa Empire of the Sun "roet stumm d'ar pezh en doa stummet anezhañ" (« gives shape to what shaped him."). Padal, eo kempouesoc'h ar sell en deus Ballard war an darvoudoù-se : "I don't think you can go through the experience of war without one's perceptions of the world being forever changed. The reassuring stage set that everyday reality in the suburban west presents to us is torn down; you see the ragged scaffolding, and then you see the truth beyond that, and it can be a frightening experience." (Livingstone 1996) hag ivez: "I have—I won't say happy—not unpleasant memories of the camp. [...] I remember a lot of the casual brutality and beatings-up that went on—but at the same we children were playing a hundred and one games all the time!" (Pringle 1982)
Baldwin, Gordon. Looking at Photographs: A Guide to Technical Terms (Malibu, Calif.: The J. Paul Getty Museum in association with the British Museum Press, London, 1991), 7, 35, 55, 58, 74, 80, 81-82.
In 2008, after three years of internal turmoil, the club's members of the club adopted the new name of the club as Sportive Association of Rangers Football Club (Association Sportive de Rangers Football Club "AS Rangers FC"). The club affiliated in the fifth division of the Bujumbura Football League of Buyenzi.
對海德格，哲學嘅衰嘢唔係 重未有外在於我地嘅世界（存在）嘅證明，而係從未有人去揾呢個證明。 At the same time his own project is hugely ambitious, in that he is interested not in the being of certain things, such as are studied in various (ontical) categories such as, biology, physics, psychology, and history, but in the question of being in general (the ontological question), of why or how there is something rather than nothing. Being in general is the most difficult because, like a smell that was always in our nose, it is almost always there, it is closest and for the most part there. Only in a state of anxiety (and not fear, which is fear of something in particular), where the whole world itself is pushed away, can we see something of this and get some authentic sight of it, before we again take up some activity and get lost in it.
Marshall, L. G. 1984. Monotremes and marsupials. Pp 59-115 in Anderson, S. and J. Knox Jones, eds, Orders and Families of Recent Mammals of the World. John Wiley and Sons, NY. xii+686 pp.
Reythyansva Statys Unys yw skoren reythyansel an governans Statys Unys. An reythyansva yw dewjambourek. An Senedh yw an ughella chi ha'n Chi Kanasedhyron yw an isella. An dhew a omguntel yn drehevyans Capitol, yn Washington DC.
The Change-Up ek 2011 mein bana English, Ukrainian film hain. Yea film USA mein David Dobkin ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Ryan Reynolds, Jason Bateman, Leslie Mann, Olivia Wilde acting kiye the.
Chocó is inhabitit predominantly bi stryndants o African slaves brocht bi the Spainyie Colonisers efter conquerin the Americas. The seicont race/ethnic group are the Emberá, the remainin Native American fowk, wi mair nor hauf o thair tot population in Colombie livin in Chocó, some 35,500. Thay practice huntin an airtisan fishin an live near rivers.
When the AFL and the NFL officially merged in 1970, the combined league divided its teams into the American Football Conference (AFC) and the National Football Conference (NFC). It was then decided (officially announced on January 26, 1970) that CBS would televise all NFC teams (including playoff games) while NBC all AFC teams. For interconference games, CBS would broadcast them if the visiting team was from the NFC and NBC would carry them when the visitors were from the AFC. This was in line with the NFL television blackout rules of the time, meaning that every televised game of a local NFL team would be on the same channel (at the time, home games were banned from local TV regardless of sell-out status, while road games are required to be aired in the teams' primary media markets, and select neighboring markets as well, even if it is not the most popular team in the market). The two networks also divided up the Super Bowl on a yearly rotation.
Plantilla:See also The Chicago White Sox's game broadcast were originally televised by WGN-TV (channel 9) for 20 seasons from 1948 – the station signed on in April of that year – to 1967. The team's game telecasts moved to then-upstart independent station WFLD (channel 32, now a Fox owned-and-operated station) – which, like WGN-TV, carried White Sox games on more than occasion – in 1968. WGN-TV regained broadcast rights for the White Sox in 1973, and entered into a contractual agreement with then-competing independent WSNS-TV (channel 44, now a Telemundo owned-and-operated station) to have that station carry select games, an arrangement that lasted through the 1980 season. WGN-TV became the exclusive television broadcaster of White Sox games in 1981, before WFLD re-obtained broadcast rights the following year. After an eight-year run on WFLD, the White Sox returned to WGN-TV in 1990 after co-owner Jerry Reinsdorf agreed to long-term deals with the station for both the Sox and his NBA franchise, the Chicago Bulls.
He also called a Stanley Cup semifinal in 1971 at Chicago Stadium (nicknamed "The Madhouse on Madison"). When the Blackhawks scored an empty-netter to clinch the series, he yelled, "I can feel our broadcast booth shaking! That's the kind of place Chicago Stadium is right now!"
Escape from New York was released in the United States on July 10, 1981. The film received positive reviews from critics and was a commercial success, grossing over $25 million at the box office. The film was nominated for four Saturn Awards, including Best Science Fiction Film and Best Direction. The film became a cult classic and was followed by a sequel, Escape from L.A. (1996), which was also directed and written by Carpenter and starred Russell but which was much more poorly received.
Tabitha King uqbel ad tezweǧ isemis yella d Tabitha Jane-Frances Spruce tlul di Old Town, Maine. Baba-s d Raymond George ma d yemma-s d Sarah Jane White Spruce.
Al-Qadisiyyah Province (Arabic: القادسية Al Qādisiyyah‎‎) (or Qadisiyyah Province) is ane o the provinces o Iraq. It is in the center-sooth o the kintra. Its caipital is Al Diwaniyah. Afore 1976, it wis pairt o the ad-Diwāniyyah Province, alang wi al-Muthannā Province an Najaf Province. The province is namit efter the historical ceety of Al-Qadisiyyah; the steid o the Battle o al-Qadisiyyah, whaur in 636 CE the Islamic Rashidun forces defeatit the forces o the Sassanid Empire.
John Dockery was the initial color commentator for Sunday Night Football, serving under Buck and Nantz. Beginning in 1990 and continuing until 1997, Dockery split the color commentator duties with Pat Haden. Dockery would work the first half of the season while Haden called games with Skip Caray, Gary Bender, and Verne Lundquist on Turner Network Television, and Haden would replace Dockery alongside Nantz and David for the games that ESPN would carry on television. Haden left Westwood One after the 1997 season to take over the position as lead analyst on Notre Dame's television broadcasts.
Template:MissUniverses 1980–1999 Template:Miss Universe Organization titleholders 1999 Template:Big Four Pageants titleholders 1999 Template:Persondata
Super Bowl XLVII was broadcast for free on Internet television on the host network's website, in this case CBSSports.com. CBS charged an average of $4 million for a 30-second commercial during the game, the highest rate for any Super Bowl. Super Bowl XLVII was watched by an estimated average audience of 108.69 million U.S. viewers according to Nielsen, with a record 164.1 million tuning into at least six minutes of the game.
The World Branding Forum is a global nonprofit organisation based in London, United Kingdom. The forum runs various programmes and organises conference, workshops and seminars. It operates a newsroom and publishes industry news on its website. It is also a media partner for various industry events. The forum's industry recognition programme is the World Branding Awards, which it organises annually.
The drupes are green, globose in shape, turning bright red at maturity in late summer; each fruit is 5 mm in diameter and contains typically one or two ellipsoid-ovoid shaped stones. The fruits are edible with a mild flavour somewhat like apples. The large seeds within are somewhat hard and crunchy.
She lus 'sy chynney Asteraceae eh cardoon (Cynara cardunculus). She mooinjer dooghyssagh onnane vlasstal t'ayn, as shimmey troarag t'echey. T'eh dooghyssagh da'n Oarpey heear as Meanvooiragh.
Before entering Parliament, Hanna practised law. He also served as a Councillor for the City of Marion from 1995 to 1997. He returned to practicing law in 2010 and, in 2014 was elected unopposed as Mayor of the City of Marion.
"Few words have received more etymological investigation." In the 16th century average meant a customs duty, or the like, and was used in the Mediterranean area. It came to mean the cost of damage sustained at sea. From that came an "average adjuster" who decided how to apportion a loss between the owners and insurers of a ship and cargo.
The Farm of Roquemont. It takes its name from la Rosque’s fief, Bussy-Saint-Georges lords from 1490 to 1594; it was also the main source of the lords for the benefit of Bussy fief. Later, the farm was called the great farm of Bussy-Saint-Georges.
1783 (MDCCLXXXIII) wis a common year stairtin on Wadensday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter E), the 1783rd year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 783rd year o the 2nt millennium, the 83rd year o the 18t century, an the 4t year o the 1780s decade atween 1583 an 1929 an wi Julian Value: 1783 is 11 calendar days difference, which continued tae be uised till the complete conversion o the Gregorian calendar wis entirely duin in 1929.
1992-1996 : In the Wild (trois épisodes : Orangutans with Julia Roberts, The Galapagos Islands with Richard Dreyfuss et In the Wild Dolphins with Robin Williams)
Júpíta je ona 2.5 isupo apapo gbogbo awon pilaneti yo ku ninu Aato Orun—eyi supo to bee to fi je pe arin gbungbun re pelu Orun wa loke ojude Orun ni 1.068 itande orun lati aarin Orun. Botile-je-pe pilaneti yi tobi ju Aye lo pelu diamita lona 11 ti Aye, kikisi re din ju ti Aye lo daada. Itobinu Júpítérì je adogba mo 1,321 ti Aye, sibesibe planeti na supo lona 318 lasan ju Aye lo. Jupiter has a radius equal to 0.10 times the radius of the Sun, and has a mass of 0.001 times the mass of the Sun, making them approximately equal in density. Eyo iwon "isupo Júpítérì" kan (MJ or MJup) lo unsaba je lilo lati juwe isupo awon ohun miran, agaga awon planeti odeorun ati awon brown dwarfs. Bi be, fun apere, planet odeorun HD 209458 b ni isupo 0.69 MJ, nigbati COROT-7b ni isupo 0.015 MJ.
En juin 2015, le terme « yarn-bombing » a fait son entrée dans l'English Oxford Dictionary avec la définition suivante : « the action or practice of covering or decorating public objects or monuments with colourful knitted or crocheted items and motifs, as a form of street art. ; an instance of this. Also : street art consisting of objects civered or decorated this way. »
Reuter, Timothy (trans.) The Annals of Fulda. (Manchester Medieval series, Ninth-Century Histories, Volume II.) Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1992.
Tavua Soccer Association, Fiji Football Association ke Super Premier Division ke ek team hae. Ii team Tavua district, jon ki Viti Levu me Ba aur Rakiraki ke biich me ha, ke hae aur iske home ground Garvey Park hae. Team ke uniform gold sat, karia shorts aur karia moja hae aur ii team ke "Gold Miners" bhi bola jae hae.
Purvil'lea sahiteant droviddanchi somskritik mhaiti purai toren mellna. Lognosomsthesombondanoi mhaiti melltta ti opurnn asa ani melltta ti aream adlich oxem mhonnop soma zaina. Vafmoyin puraveamvoilean oxem dista, 'tali' va mongllosutrauylean logn zal'li bail vhonklek nhannoitaleo. Punn lognam sombondit her dhormik vidhincho ul'lekh mat il'lo posun mellna.
Between 2000 and 2004, Clark released three interrelated instrumental albums: Owls In Obsidian (2000), Staff, Mask, Rattle (2002), and Monongahela Riverrun (2004). In 2005, his first decade of recordings was collected chronologically on the double-disc compilation album, Nova Psychedelia, through Anopheles Records. In 2014, he released a complexly orchestrated darkly psychedelic cyberpunk album Dancing Through The Side Worlds, which contains many autobiographical songs. He is currently recording a new album Whirlwind Of The Whispering Worlds which will be forthcoming in late 2018.
543,965 km2 -- France (metropolitan France only; French Land Register data, which exclude lakes, ponds, and glaciers larger than 1 km2 as well as the estuaries of rivers)
Under Emperor Ling (r. 168–189 AD) the eunuchs had the partisan prohibitions renewed and expanded, while themselves auctioning off top government offices. Many affairs of state were entrusted to the eunuchs Zhao Zhong (d. 189 AD) and Zhang Rang (d. 189 AD) while Emperor Ling spent much of his time roleplaying with concubines and participating in military parades.
Webster, Donald Everett (1939). The Turkey of Atatürk: Social Process in the Turkish Reformation. Philadelphia, PA: American Academy of Political and Social Science. OCLC 404655.
The apparatus is assembled as in the diagram. (The diagram represents a batch apparatus, as opposed to a continuous apparatus.) The mixture is put into the round bottomed flask along with a few anti-bumping granules (or a Teflon coated magnetic stirrer bar if using magnetic stirring), and the fractionating column is fitted into the top. As the mixture boils, vapor rises up the column. The vapor condenses on the glass platforms, known as trays, inside the column, and runs back down into the liquid below, refluxing distillate. The column is heated from the bottom. The efficiency in terms of the amount of heating and time required to get fractionation can be improved by insulating the outside of the column in an insulator such as wool, aluminium foil or preferably a vacuum jacket. The hottest tray is at the bottom and the coolest is at the top. At steady state conditions, the vapor and liquid on each tray are at equilibrium. Only the most volatile of the vapors stays in gaseous form all the way to the top. The vapor at the top of the column, then passes into the condenser, which cools it down until it liquefies. The separation is more pure with the addition of more trays (to a practical limitation of heat, flow, etc.) The condensate that was initially very close to the azeotrope composition becomes gradually richer in water. The process continues until all the ethanol boils out of the mixture. This point can be recognized by the sharp rise in temperature shown on the thermometer.
Project XX ek 1954–1970 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein N/A ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Alexander Scourby acting kiye the.
Columbia High School has won multiple Paper Mill Playhouse Rising Star Awards for their musical program. Bethany Pettigrew and Tricia Benn won for Best Director in 2015 for Ragtime and "The Silly Girls" won Outstanding Featured Ensemble Group in 2016 for Beauty and The Beast. The Columbia High School Musicals have been run by Michael Healy, Bethany Pettigrew, Tricia Benn, and Rob Cohen for the past 10 years.
From October to November 1946, a series of satyagrahas (non-violent civil-disobedience actions) were held in Goa; however, many of the leaders of these actions were arrested. With the arrest of the leadership, much of the momentum of the movement was lost and, subsequently, the Goa Congress began to operate from Bombay.प्रारूप:Citation needed
Repeat'd glaciations, that kiver'd the hail laund-mass o modren Scotland, hae malafouster'd onie traces that thar micht hae been o bodies bidin thon afore the Mesolithic period. It is thocht that the first post-glacial groups o hunter-gaitherers winned til Scotland aboot 12,800 yeir aby, as the ice sheet retreat'd eftir the last glaciation. Groups o sattilers begoud biggin the first kent lestie hooses on Scots yird aboot 9,500 yeir aby, an the first clachans aboot 6,000 yeir aby. The weil-haint clachan o Skara Brae on the Mainlaund o Orkney dates frae this tym. Neolithic dwallin, birrial an ritual steids ar gey common an weil-haint in the Northren Isles an Wastren Isles, whaur want o trees led ti maist biggins bein biggit oot o local stane.
Woodruff began writing and producing music in 2006, which incorporated roots reggae with dub, a subgenre of reggae. As a freshman in college, Woodruff began submitting instrumental tracks to the Sublime Archive website and consequently adopted the moniker Stick Figure, which was a take on his high school nickname.
In addition to the general computational modéls, some simpler computational modéls are useful for special, restricted applications. Regular expressions, for example, are used to specify string patterns in UNIX and in some programming languages such as Perl. Another formalism mathematically equivalent to regular expressions, Finite automata are used in circuit design and in some kinds of problem-solving. Context-free grammars are used to specify programming language syntax. Non-deterministic pushdown automata are another formalism equivalent to context-free grammars. Primitive recursive functions are a defined subclass of the recursive functions.
The paper is noted as the last place of employment of investigative journalist Gary Webb, who began working at the paper after the Dark Alliance scandal. Webb allegedly committed suicide while working for the paper.
Abbottabad (Urdu: ضلع ایبٹ آباد) is a destrict in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province o Pakistan. The destrict covers a aurie o 1,969 km wi the ceety o Abbottabad bein the principal toun. Neebourin destricts are Mansehra tae the north, Muzaffarabad tae the east, Haripur tae the wast, an Rawalpindi tae the sooth.
Sturges revisited the same material a decade later when he directed a more historically accurate sequel of sorts, Hour of the Gun, starring James Garner as Wyatt Earp, Jason Robards as Doc Holliday, and Robert Ryan as Ike Clanton. That film begins with a more accurate version of the O.K. Corral gun battle, then moves forward into the aftermath for the balance of the movie.
Ethnic groups and the state : Azaris, Kurds and Baluch of Iran, by R. Farzanfar, PhD Dissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dept. of Political Science, 1992
Takis Fotopoulos interview, "Inclusive Democracy", Transcription of a video by O. Ressler, recorded in London, Great Britain, 37 min. (2003), www.republicart.net. Retrieved 3 January 2014.
Chagang (Chagang-do) is a province in North Korea; it is bordered bi Cheenae tae the north, Ryanggang-do an Hamgyongnam-do tae the east, Pyongannam-do tae the south, an Pyonganbuk-do tae the wast. Chagang wis formed in 1949, efter being demarcatit frae North P'yŏngan. The provincial caipital is Kanggye.
A federal destrict is a teep o admeenistrative diveesion o a federation, unner the direct control o a federal govrenment. Federal destricts aften include caipital destricts, an they exist in various kintras an states aw ower the warld.
Benzel, Rick. 2005. Inspiring Creativity: an Anthology of Powerful Insights and Practical Ideas to Guide You to Successful Creating. Playa Del Rey Californiae: Creativity Coaching Association.
Work licensed under a Creative Commons License is governed by applicable copyright law. This allows Creative Commons licenses to be applied to all work falling under copyright, including: books, plays, movies, music, articles, photographs, blogs, and websites. Creative Commons does not recommend the use of Creative Commons licenses for software.
Durin Catherine's municipal reform o 1777, Petrovskaya Sloboda wi incorporatit as a toun, whaurupon its name wis chyngit tae Petrozavodsk. A new Neoclassical ceety centre wis then built, focused on the newly-planned Roond Square. In 1784 Petrozavodsk wis lairge enough tae supplant Olonets as the admeenistrative centre o the region. Although Emperor Paul abolished Olonets Govrenorate, it wis revivit as a separate guberniya in 1801, wi Petrozavodsk as its admeenistrative centre.
Illustrated Atlas of Clinical Equine Anatomy and Common Disorders of the Horse, ulih Ronald J. Riegal, D.V.M. wan Susan E. Hakola, B.S., R.N., C.M.I. Equistar Publications, Ltd., 1996.
25 February - S.Rajaratnam, jon ki Singapore ke Deputy Prime Minister 1980 - 1985 aur Minister aur cabinet minister 1959 - 1988 tak rahaa, ke janam Jaffna, Sri Lanka me bhais rahaa. (maut: 22 February 2006)
After acquiring the new package, CBS Sports then named former NFL Today host Greg Gumbel, as their lead play-by-play announcer (Gumbel had moved to NBC Sports, working there from 1994 to 1998 after CBS lost the NFL to Fox). Phil Simms (who at the time, was at NBC as part of the lead announcing team alongside Dick Enberg and Paul Maguire) was hired as the lead color commentator. On September 6, 1998, after 1,687 days since the last broadcast of The NFL Today, host Jim Nantz welcomed back viewers to CBS for its coverage of the National Football League.
An Ossetyon yw sevys a'n Alanyon, udn bobel sarmatek a davas iranek. Cristonyon yw an vrassa radn anodhans (61%); Muslimyon yw re erel. Woja dhyweth an URSS, an Ossetyon a wrug protestya erbydn aga bos kevys in Pow Grouzy.
Ruangprim, T. et al. 2007. Rumen microbes and ecology of male dairy, beef cattle and buffaloes. In: Proceedings Animal Science Annual Meeting, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand.
The candidacy submission phase lasts from 00:00 UTC April 20 to 23:59 UTC May 5 for the Board and from 00:00 UTCApril 20 to 23:59 UTC April 30 for the FDC and FDC Ombudsperson. This year, we are accepting both self-nominations and nominations of others. More information on this election and the nomination process can be found on the 2015 Wikimedia elections page on Meta-Wiki.
Gardner, A.L. 1993. Order Paucituberculata. In Wilson, D.E. & Reeder, D.M. (eds.) Mammal Species of the World, Second Edition. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington and London.: 25.
The Nederlandse Spoorwegen (NS) Class 1200 was a class of electric locomotives that were in service from 1951 until 1998. They were designed by Baldwin and built by Werkspoor (Utrecht) between 1951 and 1953. The electrical equipment was built by N.V. Heemaf (Hengelo) to a design by Westinghouse. Some parts (the bogies, and the electrical installation) were made in the United States as part of the Marshall Plan.
Gales Creek - Galice - Gardiner - Garibaldi - Gaston - Gates - Gaylord - Gearhart - Gervais - Gibbon - Gilchrist - Gladstone - Glenada - Glendale - Gleneden Beach - Glenwood - Glide - Goble - Gold Beach - Gold Hill - Goshen - Government Camp - Grand Ronde - Granite - Grants Pass - Grass Valley - Gravelford - Greenhorn - Gresham
Within the text of most pages there are usually a large number of hypertext links to other pages. This form of non-linear navigation is more "native" to wiki than structured/formalized navigation schemes. That said, users can also create any number of index or table of contents pages, with hierarchical categorization or whatever form of organization they like. These may be challenging to maintain by hand, as multiple authors create and delete pages in an ad hoc manner. Wikis generally provide one or more ways to categorize or tag pages to support the maintenance of such index pages.
Bungeni, along with other villages situated in the area, is currently experiencing strong economic growth in the property market. A number of major retail hardware stores operate in the area, selling construction materials. This has led to the once rural villages of the area becoming semi-urban areas.
Remsen, J. V., Jr., C. D. Cadena, A. Jaramillo, M. Nores, J. F. Pacheco, M. B. Robbins, T. S. Schulenberg, F. G. Stiles, D. F. Stotz, & K. J. Zimmer. 2007. A classification of the bird species of South America. American Ornithologists' Union. Lest 12. desember 2007.
IV. "to be an outstanding example of a type of building, architectural or technological ensemble or landscape which illustrates (a) significant stage(s) in human history";
Giribet, G., D. L. Distel, M. Polz, W. Sterrer, et W. C. Wheeler. 2000. Triploblastic Relationships with Emphasis on the Acoelomates and the Position of Gnathostomulida, Cycliophora, Plathelminthes, and Chaetognatha: A Combined Approach of 18S rDNA Sequences and Morphology. Syst. Biol. 49(3): 539-562.
"Every scholar that spells a word wrong or omits a silent letter or figure shall step in the rear of the class and there stand until the class shall have spelled through, then those that have spelled right are to move up in a solid body and those who are in the rear to move down and take their places at the foot."
Suttka / Exodus 12 : 12 - 13 - Tê rati Ejipta-chea desantlean Hanv vetolom ani sogllea malgoddeank jivexim martolom, monxank toxem monzatink, ani sogllea Ejiptachea devank Hanv khast laitolom, Hanv to Sorvespor. 13 Tumi ravtat tim ghoram dakhounk, hem rogot zatolem êk khunna; ani tem rogot dixtti podd-tôch Hanv tumkam kãi vaitt korinastana fuddem vetolom ani, jedna Hanv Ejiptak khast laitolom, tedna tumkam kãich vaitt zaunchem na. / For on this same night I will go through Egypt, striking down every firstborn in the land, human being and beast alike, and executing judgment on all the gods of Egypt—I, the LORD! 13 But for you the blood will mark the houses where you are. Seeing the blood, I will pass over you; thereby, when I strike the land of Egypt, no destructive blow will come upon you
Izaias / Isaiah 9 : 1 - Kallokhant choltolea lokak êk vhôdd uzvadd dixtti poddlo; mornnachê savllechea desant jietolea somestancher êk uzvadd fanklo. / The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; Upon those who lived in a land of gloom a light has shone.
One of the most famous Deknni songs is Hanv Saiba Poltodi Vetam by Carlos Eugenio Ferreira (1860–1926) first published in Paris in 1895 and then in Goa in 1926. The song was adapted by Raj Kapoor as Na mangoon sona chandi in his Hindi movie Bobby. The story that is depicted in this song is about two temple dancers who want to go for Damu's wedding and they approach the boatman to ferry them across the river. The boatman says, "No! The river is rough!" The dancers offer the boatman their gold jewellery; but the boatman is still firm. "No!" he says. So the dancers dance for the boatman and this time he ferries them across the river.प्रारूप:Cn
Ta cowraghyn cadjin goaill stiagh creddal beayn as shelley folley, çhiassaghey, ro-chur magh ollish 'syn oie, as coayl trimmid. Ta soiaghey er organeyn elley cur cowraghey elley orroo. Ta faaishnys-enn croghey er radio-oaylleeaght (caslys scell-X cleeau dy cadjin), prowal Mantoux, prowal folley as scrutaghey as aase mynvioee ass ushlaghtyn callinagh.
22.10 - 23.10 - 24.10 - 25.10 - 26.10 - 27.10 - 28.10 - 29.10 - 30.10 - 31.10 - 01.11 - 02.11 - 03.11 - 04.11 - 05.11 - 06.11 - 07.11 - 08.11 - 09.11 - 10.11 - 11.11
Despite the region's troubled early years in the Soviet Union, it gradually began tae recover wi much o the aurie's infrastructure rebuilt an improved. During the Soviet era, Syunik wis noted as a soorce o metal an ore production. Housomeivver, the region wis shaken bi the renewal o the conflict ower Nagorno-Karabakh wi neebourin Azerbaijan. In 1987-1989, the remainin Azeri indwallers fled the region as a result o interethnic violence. This exodus o Azeri population made Syunik an Armenia in general mair homogeneous.
S Kedharnath, Edavaleth Kakkat Janaki Ammal (1897–1984), Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the Indian National Science Academy, 13, pp. 90–101, with portrait (1988).
Pinaceae (the pine faimily) are trees or shrubs, includin mony o the well-kent conifers o commercial importance such as cedars, firs, hemlocks, larches, pines an spruces.
The series is set on the fictional continents of Westeros and Essos and interweaves several plot lines with a large ensemble cast. The first narrative arc follows a civil war among several noble houses for the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms; the second covers the attempts to reclaim the throne by the exiled last scion of the realm's deposed ruling dynasty; the third chronicles the rising threat of the impending winter and the legendary creatures and fierce peoples of the North.
There also exists a genus named Lebeckia, in reference to the lebbeck. It is not closely related to A. lebeck however, but a member of the Faboideae, a different legume subfamily.
Kens mis Ebrel 2009, yth esa hwegh ranndir dhe Gernow: Penwyth, Keryer, Karrek, Rostormol, Karn ha'n Tiredh Uhel. War 1a mis Ebrel, an hwegh ranndir a veu dileys ha'n awtorita udnik a wrug dalleth.
A les yw is-ehen endemek a'n pesk omul (Coregonus autumnalis migratorius). Pyskessys, megys, ha gwerthys yw en keniver marhas a-dro dhe'n lydn. Rag lies tremenyas war'n hens-horn Treus-Siberya, perna omul megys yw onan a wolowboyntys an viaj hir.
The Doors ne'e grupu músiku hard rock ida husi Los Angeles, Estadu Naklibur Sira Amérika Nian. The Doors mós suksesu liu ho haklekar sira nia kansaun hanesan Light My Fire, The End, People Are Strange, Riders on the Storm, Touch Me no Break On Through (To the Other Side).
John Michael "Ozzy" Osbourne (born 3 December 1948) is an Inglis sangster, sangwriter, an actor. He rose tae prominence in the early 1970s as the lead vocalist o the hivy metal baund Black Sabbath.
This year the Wikimedia Foundation is taking a proactive stance in reaching out to each and every Wikimedia project and volunteer to find innovation, collaboration, and collation of ideas from the community driven process. The staff working on this is comprised of long-time Wikimedians with as much care and concern for the success of this drive as the volunteers, and we want you to actively participate and have a voice.
John Dramani Mahama (/məˈhɑːmə/; born 29 November 1958) is a Ghanaian politeecian who wis been Preses o Ghana frae Julie 2012 until Januar 2017.
Eva Orner is an Australian, Academy and Emmy Award-winning film producer and director based in Los Angeles. Her works include Untold Desires (winner of Best Documentary at the Australian Film Institute Awards, the Logie Awards and the Australian Human Rights Awards), Strange Fits of Passion (nominated for the Critics' Award at the Cannes Film Festival), Taxi to the Dark Side (winner of the 2008 Academy Award for Best Documentary), and Gonzo, The Life and Work of Dr Hunter S. Thompson. Orner's directorial debut, The Network, a feature documentary set behind the scenes of Afghanistan's largest television station, premiered in the US in March 2013.
There are two kinds of pens that can write at greater angles than ballpoint pens: fountain pens and felt-tipped pens. Both of these types of pen also write with less pressure and therefore with less tension in the hand.
“Abantu benshi bitabiriye ubwo butumire bavuga ko IGF atari gusa urubuga rwo kuganira, ahubwo ari n'umuyoboro ushobora gutiza umurindi ihinduka ry'ingenzi ku rwego rw'ibanze mu rwego rwo kongerera abaturage ubushobozi, build capacity and skills enable the Internet`s expansion, thereby contributing to economic and social development."
The Portuguese government pressured the Indian National Congress to disaffiliate the National Congress (Goa); however, in 1938, Goans in Bombay city formed the Provisional Goa Congress.प्रारूप:Citation needed
Aaina ek 1993 mein bana Hindi film hain. Yea film India mein Deepak Sareen ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jackie Shroff, Amrita Singh, Juhi Chawla, Saeed Jaffrey acting kiye the.
Lance A. Durdfn and Guy G. Musser. The sucking lice (Insecta, Anoplura) of the world: a taxonomic checklist with records of mammalian hosts and geographical distributions. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History; Number 218, New York, 1994
San fharsaingeachd tha iad eadar 90 is 110 cm (3–3.6 troigh) a dh'fhaid agus tha iad eadar 55 is 65 cm (1.8–2.1 troigh) a dh'àirde aig an gualainn. Tha iad mu 15 is 20 kg (33-44 lb) de chuideam. Gu cumanta tha an t-earball aca eadar 15 is 20 cm (6-8 òirleach) a dh'fhaid.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
Drovidd somskritayecho areancher poddil'lo chhap arvil'lea bhartiyancher ani khasa hindu dhormiancher dista. Areanchem mull on'n mas ani soro. Sodeak tandull, gomv, kodd'dhaneam ani tel hem on'n khatat. Ary lhovenche kopdde vaprotale. Zalear sodea bharti-i kapsache kopdde ghaltat. Arvil'lea bharti-i bhasanchi chodd lagxil'li asa. Toxench lognakareant va her mongol prosongar nal'l, khauchim panam, beddo hancho upeg hindu dhormant aryetorankoddlean mhonnjech droviddam koddlean aila oxem mantat.
Ayns mean ny 1980yn, soilshee magh DC Comics daa straih beagh jannoo er y çhynskyl dy trome, Batman: The Dark Knight Returns as Watchmen. V’ad ennoil as ghow ad ram tastey veih ny ym-fysseree cadjin; ry-cheilley marish caghlaaghyn sheshoil, haink blass ny s’appee, ny s’dorree er caslys-earishlioaryn. Myr sampleyr, haink noi-feniee myr Wolverine y ve ennoil, as va blass s’dorree er kuse dy soilsheyderyn neuchroghey myr First Comics as Dark Horse Comics. Va’n dorraghys as neunheeys ry-akin ayns skeealyn DC hie er fograghey dy trome, myr "A Death in the Family" ayns y straih Batman (as ayn, ta cooneyder Batman Robin goll er marroo liorish The Joker). Marvel, as y straih X-Men oc ennoil dy liooar, v’ad cur magh skeealyn mychione kynney-ghunverys jeh “caghlaaderyn” as ard-pooaryn oc, cosoylaghey tranlaase crauee ny kynneeagh.
A This currency is not used in day to day commerce, but is legal tender. It is minted and/or printed as commemorative banknotes and/or coinage.
James F. Strange and Hershel Shanks, "Has the House Where Jesus Stayed in Capernaum Been Found?," Biblical Archaeology Review 8, 6 (Nov./Dec., 1982), 26–37. Critique of the domus-ecclesia claims.
They formed in 1996 when Martin, Wade and Cito, originally in an underground band called "The Eight Legged Groove Machine", were approached by Danny, the drummer for the popular rock band, "The Electric Petals" and their manager, Patrick Horgan.
The grave of Scota reputitly lees in a valley, sooth o Tralee toun, in Co. Kerry Ireland. The aurie is kent as Glenn Scoithin, "Vale o the little flouer", mair normally kent as Foley's Glen. Indicatit bi a Coonty Cooncil road signpost, a trail frae the road leads alang a stream tae a clearin whaur a circle o lairge stanes marks the grave steid.
1945. A History of Western Philosophy and Its Connection with Political and Social Circumstances from the Earliest Times to the Present Day. New York: Simon and Schuster.
Plantilla:See also In 1979, Games 2 and 5 of the Eastern Conference Finals were televised live, while Game 7 was broadcast on tape delay. Games 3 and 6 of the Western Conference Finals aired live, while Games 2, 5 and 7 were televised via tape delay. Games 6 and 7 of the 1979 NBA Finals would have been televised live (at 3:30 p.m. on a Sunday and then 9:00 p.m. on the following Tuesday), but were unnecessary.
Carvajal was born in Leganés, a suburb of Madrid. He joined Real Madrid's youth system as a 10-year-old, and continued climbing through the ranks until reaching Real Madrid Castilla in 2010.
The minin toun haes been kent for its copper, titanium, an kaolinite. The toun wis a machine-biggin an cutlery manufacturin centre in East German times an is nou developin tourism, as the Siller Road (Silberstraße) runs through toun. The toun is kent for the fitbaa club FC Erzgebirge Aue an aw, which made it intae the Seicont Bundesliga in 2003 an 2010.
William Gillies, "Jackson, Kenneth Hurlstone (1909–1991)" in Oxford Dictionary of National Biography edd. H. C. G. Matthew, Brian Harrison (Oxonii: Oxford University Press, 2004) Situs venalis
Yokoe, Fuminori. 'Part 3-3. Yokoyama Matsusaburo (1838-1884).' In The Advent of Photography in Japan/Shashin torai no koro, Tokyo Metropolitan Museum of Photography, and Hakodate Museum of Art, Hokkaido, eds. (Tokyo: Tokyo Metropolitan Foundation for History and Culture; Tokyo Metropolitan Museum of Photography; Hokkaido: Hakodate Museum of Art, 1997), 182-183.
The arrondissement o Château-Thierry is an arrondissement o Fraunce in the Aisne depairtment in the Picardy region. It haes five cantons an 123 communes.
In contrast tae the hazy, relatively featureless atmosphere o Uranus, Neptune's atmosphere is notable for its active an veesible wather patterns. For example, at the time o the 1989 Voyager 2 flyby, the planet's soothren hemisphere possessed a Great Dark Spot comparable tae the Great Red Spot on Jupiter. These wather patterns are driven bi the strangest sustained winds o ony planet in the Solar Seestem, wi recordit wind speeds as heich as 2,100 kilometres per hour (1,300 mph). Acause o its great distance frae the Sun, Neptune's ooter atmosphere is ane o the cauldest places in the Solar Seestem, wi temperaturs at its clood taps approachin 55 K (−218 °C). Temperaturs at the planet's centre are approximately 5,400 K (5,000 °C). Neptune haes a faunt an fragmented ring seestem (labeled 'arcs'), which mey hae been detectit durin the 1960s but wis anly indisputably confirmed in 1989 bi Voyager 2.
Flowers contain the reproductive organs of a plant. Some flowers are dependent upon the wind to move pollen between flowers of the same species. Many others rely on insects or birds to move pollen. The role of flowers is to produce seeds or fruit (fruits contain seeds). Fruits and seeds are a means of dispersal. Plants do not move, but wind, animals and birds spread the plants across the landscape.
“Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified by blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgivenss of sins.” – Hebrews. 9:22
To convert the backlink data gathered by BackRub's web crawler into a measure of importance for a given web page, Brin and Page developed the PageRank algorithm, and realized that it could be used to build a search engine far superior to existing ones. The new algorithm relied on a new kind of technology that analyzed the relevance of the backlinks that connected one Web page to another.
In Spring 2013 Stick Figure embarked on their first headlining tour with stops in major cities including Boston, Austin, Denver and Chicago with multiple sold out shows. That year they also went on three national tours alongside reggae bands Passafire, John Brown’s Body, and Tribal Seeds.
Selven KS yw an screfa-composter ûsyes in Creacon of the World gen William Jordan (1611). Indelma, KS a vydna bos 'pons' yntra Kernowek cres ha Kernowek dywedhes. Nebes haval dhe screfa-composter Henry Jenner yw va inwedh.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
Plantilla:See also WGN-TV has had a long association with the Chicago Cubs, whose games have aired on the station since the station signed on in April 1948; the station's corporate parent, the Tribune Company (which operates WGN-TV through its Tribune Broadcasting subsidiary) purchased the National League franchise in 1981, eventually selling the team to businessman Thomas S. Ricketts in 2008. Legendary Chicago sportscaster Jack Brickhouse, the longtime sports director (and later vice president of sports programming) for WGN-TV and sister radio station WGN (920 AM), served as the play-by-play announcer for both the Chicago Cubs and White Sox until 1967, when the White Sox (for whom Brickhouse performed play-by-play duties for home games) ended their first stint on WGN-TV; Brickhouse primarily called Cubs games until his retirement from broadcasting in 1981. Another legendary sports broadcaster, Harry Caray (who served as a fill-in sports anchor on the station's newscasts during the 1970s) served as the lead play-by-play announcer for the White Sox on television and radio from 1971 to 1981, before joining the Cubs with the 1982 season.
Students that attend the College are from the Bulileka community namely of Dreketilailai, Anuve, Boubale, Urata, Boca, Vitadra, Low cost housing, Bangladesh and even some travel from Labasa.
The Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) has launched a consultation to help create and prioritize WMF strategy beginning July 2016 and for the 12 to 24 months thereafter. This consultation will be open, on Meta, from 18 January to 26 February, after which the Foundation will also use these ideas to help inform its Annual Plan. (More on our timeline can be found on that Meta page.)
Lisbon enjoys a Subtropical-Mediterranean climate. Amang aw the metropolises in Europe, it heas the warmest winters, wi average temperatures 15 °C (59 °F) durin the day an 8 °C (46 °F) at nicht in the period frae December tae Februar. The typical simmer's saison lasts aboot sax months, frae Mey tae October, although an aa in November, Mairch an Aprile temperatures sometimes reach aroond 20 °C (68.0 °F).
She rollage naeearaneagh çhyndaaee ta feer vagnaidit ee rollage vuillagh. T'eh cur magh scellyn jeh'n goulraght lectrovagnaidagh. Cha nel ny skellyn shen ry-akin er y Dowan mannagh vel ad çheet jeeragh hooin, cosoylagh rish sollys thieyn sollysh. 'Syn aght shen, ta cummey yn rollage cosoylagh rish rollage ta builley. Ta rollageyn naeearaneagh feer ghloo as ta ammyn çhyndaaee cadjin as giarey oc. Ta'n aght shen gientyn eddyrcheimyn feer chiart eddyr ny buillaghyn as ad eddyr millihullee as thullee er lhiurid da rollage er lheh.
Emma Byrne comensat li football in li club Leixlip Unitied e pos to in St. Patricks Athletic in Dublin. Desde li annu 2000 ella lude por Arsenal London Ladies in Anglia.
Elvire MAUROUARD is a French citizen who was born in Jérémie (Haiti). Docteur ès Lettres, she received a doctoral degree in French Caribbean Literature from L’Université de Paris VIII. Her dissertation deals with Le tragique haïtien entre roman et théâtre. She is a teacher, a journalist and the autor, Les beautés noires de Baudelaire (Karthala, 2005). In March 2004, she published Contes et poèmes des Îles savoureuses. This year she has also published a collection of poems called L’alchimie des rêves (L’Harmattan, 2005). She has been variously contributor to major reviews, such as Les Anneaux de la Mémoire (historical review), Agora (poetry review), and Notre Librairie (a literary review). The past few months, in Europe, the USA and Canada, she participated- as a writer and a published scholar- in several intellectual activities: she gave a talk at California State University, Long Beach, and delivered a lecture at le Sénat à l’Ecole d’Anthropologie de Paris, and at l’Académie des Sciences d’Outre-mer (France); she also gave a paper, and made a presentation as well as a poetry reading in the 2005 International Congress of “Conseil International d’Etudes Francophones’’ in Ottawa-Gatineau (Canada). As an award winning author, she has received La médaille d’or de l’Académie internationale de Lutèce, and the prize Présence des Arts au Concours de l’Ile des Poètes 2005. On October 15, 2005, she delivered another lecture dealing with Les voix nègres de Victor Hugo at le Sénat in Paris. She is an active member of several literary associations including L’Association des Ecrivains de Langue Française, and La Société des gens de Lettres (France). Elvire Maurouard’s research interests include the representations of Black women and the dynamics of identity in French and Francophone fictions, as well as reflections on Le génie d’Ingres and L’Haïtienne de Matisse. She has just finished writing her first novel, La Joconde Noire. And she has published her historical study Les Juifs de Saint-Domingue (Haiti) in June 2008.
Won bi ni Engcobo to wa ni Transkei (to je apa Eastern Cape Province, Guusu Afrika loni). Iya re Alice Sisulu je olutoju ile, baba re, Victor Dickenson, je alawofunfun osise ijoba. O kuro ni Engcobo leyin eko re ni 1926, o si ko o si Johannesburg ni 1928 nibi to ti se orisirisi ise. O di omo egbe ANC ni 1940. Ni 1943, pelu Nelson Mandela ati Oliver Tambo, o di omo egbe ANC Youth League, ti Lembede dasile, to je akopo fun nibere. He later distanced himself from Lembede after Lembede (died 1947) had ridiculed his parentage (Sisulu was the son of a white foreman). Sisulu was a brilliant political networker and had a prominent planning role in the militant Umkhonto we Sizwe ("Spear of the Nation"). He was made secretary general of the ANC in 1949, displacing the more passive older leadership, and held that post until 1954.
With the rebirth of the Lakers–Celtics rivalry, ratings improved, especially in the three NBA Finals that the two teams played in. Between 1981 and 1983, ratings for CBS' NBA telecasts rose by 12%. CBS' highest-rated NBA game (and the only NBA game that scored more than 20 ratings points for the network) was Game 7 of the 1988 NBA Finals between the Lakers and the Detroit Pistons. By the end of its coverage, CBS' NBA ratings had been mostly respectable, with the lowest-rated Final after 1982 scoring a 12.3 (three times), a mark higher than any NBA Final since 1998.
The first dynasty tae rule Syunik wis the Siunia Dynasty, beginnin in the 1st century. The first kent Naxarar ruler wis Valinak Siak (c.330) an his successor wis his brither Andok or Andovk (Antiochus, c.340). In 379 Babik (Bagben) the son o Andok, wis re-established as a Naxarar bi the Mamikonian faimily. Babik haed a sister cried Pharantzem who haed marriet the Arsacid Prince Gnel, nephew o the Armenie Keeng Arsaces II (Arshak II) an later marriet Arsaces II as her seicont husband. Babik’s rule lastit for less nor ten years an bi aboot 386 or 387, Dara wis deposed bi the Sassanid Empire.
Aaye Din Bahar Ke ek 1966 mein bana Hindi film hain. Yea film India mein Raghunath Jhalani ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Asha Parekh, Dharmendra, Balraj Sahni, Nazima acting kiye the.
People also eat some types of flowers. Flower vegetables include broccoli, cauliflower and artichoke. The most expensive spice, saffron, comes from the crocus flower. Other flower spices are cloves and capers. Hops flowers are used to flavor beer. Dandelion flowers are often made into wine.
In 2004, Columbia High School made national headlines when the administration amended a policy regarding religiously themed holiday songs putting more strict guidelines in place. Many people believed the new rules to be too strict. Radio personality Don Imus produced a song on his radio program entitled "Oh, Little Town of Maplewood", mocking the new rules of Columbia High School. The new guidelines were also mentioned on The O'Reilly Factor.
Farrington, D. P. (1989d) Self-reported and official offending from adolescence to adulthood. In Klein, M.W. (Ed.) Cross-National Research in Self-Reported Crime and Delinquency. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Kluwer (pp. 399-423).
Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.
Frederic C. Lane/Reinhold C. Mueller: Money and Banking in Medieval and Renaissance Venice. Bd. 1: Coins and Moneys of Account, Bd. 2: The Venetian Money Market: Banks, Panics and the Public Debt, 1200–1500. Baltimore/London 1985 og 1997.
During the 1990 season, Pat Summerall was hospitalized after vomiting on a plane during a flight after a Bears–Redskins game, and was out for a considerable amount of time. While Verne Lundquist replaced Summerall on games with Madden, Jack Buck (who was at CBS during the time as the network's lead Major League Baseball announcer) was added as a regular NFL broadcaster to fill-in.
Monsters vs. Aliens ek 2009 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Rob Letterman, Conrad Vernon ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Reese Witherspoon, Seth Rogen, Hugh Laurie, Will Arnett acting kiye the.
The Chinese traveler Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang) described a ritual organized by Emperor Shiladitya (identified with Harsha) at the confluence of two rivers, in the kingdom of Po-lo-ye-kia (identified with Prayaga). He also mentions that many hundreds took a bath at the confluence, to wash away their sins. According to some scholars, this is earliest surviving historical account of the Prayaga Kumbh Mela, which took place in Prayaga in 644 CE. However, Xuanzang's reference is about an event that happened every 5 years (and not 12 years), and might have been a Buddhist celebration (since Harsha was a Buddhist emperor).
Moreover, the efficiencies of the vapor-liquid contact devices (referred to as plates or trays) used in distillation columns, as seen in Figure 3, are typically lower than that of a theoretical 100% efficient equilibrium stage. Hence, a distillation column needs more plates than the number of theoretical vapor-liquid equilibrium stages.
A former republic of the Soviet Union, Armenia is a unitary, multiparty, democratic nation-state with an ancient and historic cultural heritage. The Kingdom of Armenia became the first state to adopt Christianity as its religion in the early years of the 4th century (the traditional date is 301). The modern Republic of Armenia recognizes the Armenian Apostolic Church as the national church of Armenia, although the republic has separation of church and state.
1 Timotak / 1 Timothy 6 : 15–16 - Apnnem nemlolea kallar Taka porgôtt kortolo 16 Ekloch omôr asa To, ogom’ uzvaddant ravpi, mon’xan polleunk naslolo, polleunk-ui zaina toslo, Ekloch sogtta-sorvancho Bhagevont Odhikari! Toch to razancho Raza ani dhoniancho Dhoni! Taka man ani odvi sasnnachea sasnnak! Amen! / that the blessed and only ruler will make manifest at the proper time, the King of kings and Lord of lords, 16 who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, and whom no human being has seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal power. Amen
Dirty Hearts ek 2011 mein bana Japanese, Portuguese film hain. Yea film Brazil mein Vicente Amorim ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Tsuyoshi Ihara, Takako Tokiwa, Eiji Okuda, Shun Sugata acting kiye the.
Vast reserve to protect remote Prince Edward Islands in the Southern Ocean Marine Protected Area around Prince Edward Islands, establishment and species affected, May 2009
Kieffer, Elizabeth C., Henry Harbaugh, Pennsylvania Dutchman, 1817-1867, by Elizabeth Clarke Kieffer. Together with an appendix containing the writings of Dr. Henry Harbaugh in the dialect popularly known as Pennsylvania Dutch, Norristown, Pa., Norristown Herald, Inc.: 1945
Currently 2.85% of the MediaWiki messages and 0.09% of the messages of the extensions used by the Wikimedia Foundation projects have been localised. Please help us help your language by localising and proof reading at Betawiki. This is the recent localisation activity for your language. Thanks, GerardM 09:55, 10 января 2009 (UTC)
The Columbia High School Student Council was named an "NJASC Honor School" for the 3rd consecutive year in January 2008. It also won a "Top 10 Projects" award for their event, 'School in Action Night'. They won the same honor the year before for their 'How to Start a Gay-Straight Alliance' presentation.
The population o the federal subjects comprisin the federal destrict wis 9,496,800 accordin tae the 2010 Census, livin on an aurie o 170,700 square kilometers (65,900 sq mi).
Frontinus at LacusCurtius: cijeli tekstovi De aquis i Strategemata na latinskom jeziku i engleskom; illustrated with some of the Monscassinensis manuscript from the Herschel edition.
When this software arrives, you will have the option to use it or to use the current wikitext editor. When you press “edit”, you will get the new VisualEditor software. To use the wikitext editor, you can press “edit source”. For more information about how to use VisualEditor, see mw:Help:VisualEditor/User guide.
A naitional emblem seembolically represents a kintra. Maist naitional emblems come frae the naitral warld, (as ainimals or flouers), but it micht can be onything.
Va'n Reeriaght Unnaneysit cummaghtagh ayns lhiasaghey ny scannaneaght, lesh Ealing Studios gaggyrt dy vel ad nyn seyrlanyn shinney er y theihll. Faagail magh dy vel shennaghys fillmyn scanshoil as ladoosagh 'syn RU, ta'n çhynskyl cowrit lesh resoonaght veayn er yn enney echey, as cleayney ny scannaneaght Americaanagh as Oarpagh.
Ta'n skeeal mooie, bentyn rish Dayindi, doo as bane, agh ta skeeal ny shennayraghyn lane daahit. T'ad loayrt abbyrtyn Yolŋu Matha, lesh fo-heidylyn, as ta'n insheyder loayrt Baarle.
(Note: For links to a variety of Romani media, chatroom and history and culture sites, see in particular the links pages of the Manchester University Romani project.)
Aina ek 2011 mein bana English, Yoruba, Creoles and pidgins film hain. Yea film USA mein Olamide Maarore ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Kadiatu Kamara, Kenneth Okolie, Ijeoma Agu, Opeyemi Awoyemi acting kiye the.
Most of the chemistry has been observed only for the first five members of the group. The chemistry of radium is not well-established due to its radioactivity; thus, the presentation of its properties here is limited.
Malinowski, Bronislaw. Argonauts of the Western Pacific: An Account of Native Enterprise and Adventure in the Archipelagoes of Melanesian New Guinea (2002) famous anthropological account of the Trobriand Islanders; based on field work in 1910s online
The GNU FDL is incompatible in both directions with the GPL: that is GNU FDL material cannot be put into GPL code and GPL code cannot be put into a GNU FDL manual. Because of this, code samples are often dual-licensed so that they may appear in documentation and can be incorporated into a free software program.
Bernardi suggested East St. Louis, Illinois, because it was filled with old buildings "that exist in New York now, and [that] have that seedy run-down quality" that the team was looking for. East St. Louis, sitting across the Mississippi River from the more prosperous St. Louis, Missouri, had entire neighborhoods burned out in 1976 during a massive urban fire. Hill said in an interview, "block after block was burnt-out rubble. In some places there was absolutely nothing, so that you could see three and four blocks away." As well, Alves found an old bridge to double for the "69th St. Bridge". The filmmaker purchased the Old Chain of Rocks Bridge for one dollar from the government and then gave it back to them, for the same amount, once production was completed, "so that they wouldn't have any liability," Hill remembers. Locations across the river in St. Louis, Missouri were used, including Union Station and the Fox Theatre, both of which have since been renovated, as well as the building which would eventually become the Schlafly Tap Room microbrewery.
Despite the tribute and a negotiation between Laoshang Chanyu (r. 174–160 BC) and Emperor Wen (r. 180–157 BC) to reopen border markets, many of the Chanyu's Xiongnu subordinates chose not to obey the treaty and periodically raided Han territories south of the Great Wall for additional goods. In a court conference assembled by Emperor Wu (r. 141–87 BC) in 135 BC, the majority consensus of the ministers was to retain the heqin agreement. Emperor Wu accepted this, despite continuing Xiongnu raids. However, a court conference the following year convinced the majority that a limited engagement at Mayi involving the assassination of the Chanyu would throw the Xiongnu realm into chaos and benefit the Han. When this plot failed in 133 BC, Emperor Wu launched a series of massive military invasions into Xiongnu territory. Chinese armies captured one stronghold after another and established agricultural colonies to strengthen their hold. The assault culminated in 119 BC at the Battle of Mobei, where the Han commanders Huo Qubing (d. 117 BC) and Wei Qing (d. 106 BC) forced the Xiongnu court to flee north of the Gobi Desert.
Lisbon is ane o the auldest ceeties in the warld. Julius Caesar made it a municipium cawed Felicitas Julia, addin tae the name Olissipo. Ruled bi a series o Germanic tribes frae the fift century, it wis captured bi the Moors in the aicht century. In 1147, the Crusaders unner Afonso Henriques reconquered the ceety for the Christians an syne then it haes been a major poleetical, economic, an cultural centre o Portugal. Unlike maist caipital ceeties, Lisbon's status as the caipital o Portugal haes niver been grantit or confirmed offeecially – bi statute or in written form. Its position as the caipital haes formed through constitutional convention, makin its position as de facto caipital a pairt o the Constitution o Portugal.
Daniel "Dani" Carvajal Ramos (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈdanjel ˈdani karβaˈxal ˈramos]; born 11 January 1992) is a Spanish professional footballer who plays as a right back for Spanish club Real Madrid and the Spanish national team.
Rhinoceros are killed bi humans for thair horns, which are boucht an sauld on the black mercat, an which are uised bi some culturs for ornamental or tradeetional medicinal purposes. East Asie, specifically Vietnam, is the lairgest mercat for rhino horns. Rhino horns cost as much as gowd on the black mercat. Fowk grind up the horns an then consume them believin the dust haes therapeutic properties. The horns are made o keratin, the same teep o protein that maks up hair an fingernails. Baith African species an the Sumatran rhinoceros hae twa horns, while the Indian an Javan rhinoceros hae a single horn.
The Wikimedia Foundation will soon turn on VisualEditor for all users, all the time on your Wikipedia. Right now your Wikipedia does not have any local documents on VisualEditor, and we hope that your community can change that. To find out about how you can help with translations visit the TranslationCentral for VisualEditor and read the easy instructions on bringing information to your Wikipedia. The User Guide and the FAQ are very important to have in your language.
Name-Chikumi Origin-Shona Country-Zimbabwe Meaning-October, the tenth month, the small ten Gender-Boy Chikumi is a Baby Boy name of Shona origin meaning October, the tenth month, the small ten.
Sulentic, Jack W., and William G. Tifft, "The Revised New General Catalogue of Nonstellar Astronomical Objects (RNGC)". Tucson, Arizona:University of Arizona Press, 1973. (4016,0)
Dher French word English1 word ke rakam hae (Kahe ki English me dher sabd Norman se aais hae, jon ki French ke rakam ke bhasa hae). Example khatir niche dekho:
Fisher G et al. Direct injection into the dorsal root ganglion: Technical, behavioral, and histological observations. J Neurosci Methods. 2011.
Villa de Vallecas (Veelage o Vallecas) is ane o the 21 destricts o the ceety o Madrid, Spain. It fuirms, wi the destrict o Puente de Vallecas, the geographical aurie o Vallecas.
The name Bulawayo comes frae the Sindebele wird KoBulawayo meanin 'a place whaur they are killed.' It is thought that at the time o the formation o the ceety, there wis a ceevil war an a group o Ndebeles no aligned tae Prince Lobengula wur fechtin him as they felt he wis no the heir tae the throne, hence he gave his caipital the name 'whaur he (the prince) is being killed'. Some historians differ on this matter, describin Bulawayo as 'at the place o He who Kills' or 'place o slaughter'.
Midia a mainaig iti Siudad ti Campeche iti Wikimedia Commons Pakaammo ti panagbiahe idiay Siudad ti Campeche manipud iti Wikivoyage (iti Ingles)
CHIMALPAHIN, Cuauhtlehuanitzin; LOCKHART, James; SHROEDER, Susan ihuan NAMALA, Doris. Annals of his time. Stanford University Press, 2006. (Inglatlahtolli - Nahuatlahtolli)
After his death, an autopsy on his brain revealed that he lived with Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE), a disease closely related to repeated head trauma. As of November 24, 2015, 87 out of 91 former NFL players tested have been diagnosed with the disease.Plantilya:Cn
Carl Ludwig "Lu(t)z" Long (27 Aprile 1913 – 14 Julie 1943) wis a German Olympic lang-jumper, notable for winnin Siller in the event at the 1936 Simmer Olympics in Berlin an for reputitly gien advice tae his competitor, Jesse Owens, wha went on tae win the gowd medal for the broad jump (as the lang jump wis then termed) as a result o Long's advice. Luz Long wan the German lang jump championship sax times in 1933, 1934, 1936, 1937, 1938, an 1939.
In 2005, the Chico News & Review started the Chico Area Music Celebration (CAMMIES) to honor the vibrant, eclectic music scene in Butte County, California. Winners are selected by CN&R readers in a list of musical genres, including Singer-songwriter, Hard Rock/Metal, Blues, Jam/R&B/Funk, Rap, Punk/Ska and others. Critics vote for winners in more specific areas, e.g. Best Male/Female vocalist, Best Guitarist, Best Drummer, Best Local CD, Local Badass, etc.
Sease, Catherine; Selwyn, Lyndsies; Zubiate, Susana; Bowers, David F.; Atkins, David R. Problems with coated silver: whisker formation and possible filiform corrosion. Studies in Conservation n° 42. 1997.
This page is written in a language other than Sindhi. If it is intended for readers from the community of that language, it should be contributed to the Wikipedia in that language. Or translate it to Sindhi language..
Division of Reproductive Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health, Promotion (2013 Jun 21). "U.s. Selected practice recommendations for contraceptive use, 2013: adapted from the world health organization selected practice recommendations for contraceptive use, 2nd edition.". MMWR. Recommendations and reports : Morbidity and mortality weekly report. Recommendations and reports / Centers for Disease Control 62 (RR-05): 1-60.
Coronel Sapucaia is a municipality locatit in the Brazilian state o Mato Grosso do Sul. Its population wis 13,562 (2005) an its aurie is 1,029 km².
In 1998, Brin and Page incorporated Google, Inc. with the initial domain name of "Googol," derived from a number that consists of one followed by one hundred zeros—this represented the vast amount of data that the search engine was intended to explore. Following inception, Page appointed himself as CEO, while Brin, named Google's co-founder, served as Google's president. Writer Nicholas Carlson wrote in 2014:
Matekeshe (Act of spreading out (e.g. herd of cattle). 2. Very large number of people or animals spread out over an area. Apa kureva kupararira kana kutekeshera.
In 2007, Page married Lucinda Southworth on Necker Island, the Caribbean island owned by Richard Branson. Southworth is a research scientist, and the sister of actress and model Carrie Southworth. Page and Southworth have two children, born in 2009 and 2011.
The charts below show the way in which the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) represents Hungarian language pronunciations in Wikipedia articles.
The Wikimedia Foundation will soon turn on VisualEditor for all users, all the time on your Wikipedia. Right now your Wikipedia does not have any local documents on VisualEditor, and we hope that your community can change that. To find out about how you can help with translations visit the TranslationCentral for VisualEditor and read the easy instructions on bringing information to your Wikipedia. The User Guide and the FAQ are very important to have in your language.
In case unacceptable edits are missed on the "recent changes" page, some wiki engines provide additional content control. It can be monitored to ensure that a page, or a set of pages, keeps its quality. A person willing to maintain pages will be warned of modifications to the pages, allowing him or her to verify the validity of new editions quickly.
Tensions wur acceleratit wi the collapse o the Roushie Empire. The region fell unner the authority o the Special Transcaucasie Committee o the Roushie Proveesional Govrenment an subsequently the short-livit Transcaucasie Democratic Federative Republic. When the TDFR wis dissolvit in Mey 1918, Zangezur, Nakhchivan, an Nagorno-Karabakh became hivily contestit atween the newly formit an short-livit states o the Democratic Republic o Armenie (DRA) an the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic (ADR). At the time, Syunik haed an Armenie majority o 350,000 an a Muslim population o 180,000. Accordin tae Thomas de Waal, the dispute ower Syunik resultit in the ethnic cleansin o region's local Azeri minority throu direct militar action bi Armenie guerilla commanders Andranik Ozanian, Rouben Ter Minassian an later Garegin Nzhdeh.
As the President prepares for a televised speech to the leaders at the summit meeting, he thanks Snake for saving him. Snake asks how he feels about the people who died saving him, but the President only offers half-hearted regret. As Snake walks away in disgust, Hauk offers Snake a job, which he refuses. The President's speech commences, and he offers the contents of the cassette; to his embarrassment, the tape is Cabbie's cassette of the swing song "Bandstand Boogie". As Snake walks away, he intentionally tears the magnetic tape out of the cassette reel with the actual message that was intended to be delivered by the President.
RISCOS Ltd completed work on RISC OS 4 and in July 1999 it was released as an upgrade for existing machines, priced at £120. Improvements include support for long filenames, larger disk sizes and partitions, along with a new desktop look.
Homosexuality ek rakam ke sexual orientation hae. Ek homosexual jan aapan sex ke duusra jan se sexually aur romantically attracted rahe hae.
The play-by-play role for CBS Radio Sports' coverage of Sunday Night Football was originally filled by Jack Buck, who called the initial Sunday night games in 1987. Jim Nantz took over for Buck, who was already calling Monday Night Football for the network, the following season and announced games until 1990 when he was moved to television. Nantz was replaced by Howard David for 1991 and continued through 1995, after which he replaced the retiring Buck on Monday Night Football. Brad Sham was hired away from his job with the Dallas Cowboys to replace David for the 1996 season, and he stayed for that season and the following season before deciding to rejoin the Cowboys. Former NBC television announcer Joel Meyers then took over and stayed until the 2005 season when he was replaced by Sunday doubleheader voice Dave Sims, who had been his primary substitute. Sims remained in this role until the end of the 2012 season, when he traded places with Sunday doubleheader voice Kevin Kugler.
Rita Steblin: Who Commissioned Schubert’s Oratorio „Lazarus“? A Solution to the Mystery. Salieri and the Tonkünstler-Societät. In: Schubert : Perspektiven. 9, 2010, S. 145–181.
Damal cheruvu is one of the small towns in pakala mandal, which is very famous for Mangoes in AP. So many youngsters proving their talent in fields like medical and engineering.
Adore ek 2013 mein bana English film hain. Yea film Australia, France mein Anne Fontaine ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Naomi Watts, Robin Wright, Xavier Samuel, James Frecheville acting kiye the.
Mauricie (French pronunciation: [mɔʁisi]) is a traditional an current admeenistrative region o Quebec. La Mauricie National Park is contained athin the region, makkin it a prime tourist location. The region haes a land aurie o 35,855.22 km² (13,843.78 sq mi) and a 2006 census population o 258,928 residents. Its lairgest ceeties are Trois-Rivières an Shawinigan.
With a few dollars left, Emily Harris was sent to a Berkeley rally called to commemorate the death of Angela Atwood, and other founding members of the SLA during the police siege. Among the radicals Harris recognised Atwood's acquaintance Kathy Soliah from civil rights pressure groups and when they had quit a waitressing job in protest of being required to wear uniforms they considered demeaning. Through Soliah the three fugitives met Jack Scott, a radical athletics coach, who had been asking for an interview with the SLA. Scott agreed to provide money and help. In a car going to a rural hideout, Scott claimed Hearst was incredulous when an offer to take her "anywhere" was made. According to Scott's account, which Hearst said was false, she had said "I want to go where my friends are going". Scott was never charged for facilitating a recrudescence of the SLA that resulted in murder.
Stevens (2000). Isurus oxyrinchus. 2006 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. IUCN 2006. Retrieved on 6 May 2006. Database entry includes justification for why this species is near threatened
Typically, the first time the main crews are together comes during Conference Championship weekend, since Boomer Esiason has commitments with The NFL Today. Since 2006, however, CBS has not chosen to travel to the sites of the AFC Championship Game. In the first of those two seasons Marv Albert called the 2007 game in Indianapolis alongside Sam Wyche.
Within its territory, the city has an industrial region (Gustave Eiffel Park) located in the south of the city. Among the listed companies, there are Tech Data, SME Distribution (Sony), IBM, Air liquide, Asialand, BT France companies,... There are also a Senior Teaching Technical Book Center (Centre technique du livre de l'enseignement supérieur) and the Technical Center of the French National Library (Centre technique de la Bibliothèque nationale de France). The city economic growth continues with the creation of new city planning areas or Zone d’Aménagement Concerté, such as the ZAC Léonardo-de-Vinci (30 hectares) or the Rucherie (80 hectares). But the debts of the town may be considered as huge.
Eunectes is a genus o boas foond in tropical Sooth Americae. Thay are an aquatic group o snakes an include ane o the lairgest snakes in the warld, E. murinus, the green anaconda. The name Eunectes is derived frae the Greek wird Eυνήκτης, which means "guid soummer". Fower species are currently recognised.
I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.
^ Schramm, W. (1954). How communication works. In W. Schramm (Ed.), The process and effects of communication (pp. 3-26). Urbana, Illinois: University of Illinois Press.
Strontium and barium do not have as many applications as the lighter alkaline earth metals, but still have uses. Strontium carbonate is often used in the manufacturing of red fireworks, and pure strontium is used in the study of neurotransmitter release in neurons. Barium has some use in vacuum tubes to remove gases, and barium sulfate has many uses in the petroleum industry, as well as other industries.
Ronaldo made his international debut for Portugal in August 2003, at the age of 18. He is Portugal's most capped player of all time with over 130 caps, and has participated in seven major tournaments: four UEFA European Championships (2004, 2008, 2012 and 2016) and three FIFA World Cups (2006, 2010 and 2014). He is the first Portuguese player to reach 50 international goals, making him Portugal's all-time top goalscorer. He scored his first international goal in Euro 2004 and helped Portugal reach the final. He took over captaincy in July 2008, and he led Portugal to the semi-finals at Euro 2012, finishing the competition as joint-top scorer. In November 2014, Ronaldo became the all-time top scorer in the UEFA European Championship (including qualifying) with 23 goals. At Euro 2016, he became the most capped player of all-time in the tournament, the first player to score at four consecutive European Championship finals, and also equalled Michel Platini's all-time record for most goals scored in the competition. Ronaldo lifted the trophy after Portugal defeated France in the final, and he received the Silver Boot as the second-highest goalscorer of the tournament.
Sean Freyne, "A Galilean Messiah?," Studia Theologica 55 (2001), 198–218. Contains an analysis of the singled-out 1st-century AD house as a courtyard rather than a room or house.
Goldfrapp: Tales of Us ek 2014 mein bana English film hain. Yea film UK mein Lisa Gunning ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Alyssa Bell, Laura Donnelly, Clemmie Dugdale, Alison Goldfrapp acting kiye the.
'S e duais airson rannsachadh fior-mhath anns an roinn eaconomaidh a tha anns an Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel (Suainis: Sveriges riksbanks pris i ekonomisk vetenskap till Alfred Nobels minne).
Frances Cress Welsing (oruko abiso Frances Luella Cress; March 18, 1935 – January 2, 2016) je oniwosan okan ara Amerika. Aroko re to ko ni odun 1970, The Cress Theory of Color-Confrontation and Racism (White Supremacy), je iwe to se pataki nipa itumo iwa ojusaju awon oyinbo.
Puebla de la Calzada is a Spaingie municipality in the province o Badajoz, Extremadura. It haes a population o 5,685 (2007) an a aurie o 14.2 km².
Zelalem Tesfaye Sirna. Ethiopia: When the Gadaa Democracy Rules In A Federal State: Bridging Indigenous Institutions of Governance to Modern Democracy. Masters of Philosophy, University of Tromsø, 2012
Pandav, Bivash 1993 A preliminary survey of the water monitor (Varanus salvator) in Bhitarkanika Wildlife Sanctuary, Orissa Hamadryad 18: 49-51
प्रारूप:Main article The Portuguese colonised India in 1510, conquering many parts of the western coast and establishing several colonies in the east. By the end of the 19th century, Portuguese colonies in India were limited to Goa, Daman, Diu, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and Anjediva Island.
Gadolinium ek chemical element hae, jiske Chemical symbol Gd, atomic number 64 aur atomic mass 157.25 hae. Ii Lanthanide group ke ek member hae.
Edo-Tokyo Museum exhibition catalog. (2000). A Very Unique Collection of Historical Significance: The Kapitan (the Dutch Chief) Collection from the Edo Period—The Dutch Fascination with Japan. Catalog of "400th Anniversary Exhibition Regarding Relations between Japan and the Netherlands," a joint project of the Edo-Tokyo Museum, the City of Nagasaki, the National Museum of Ethnology, the National Natuurhistorisch Museum and the National Herbarium of the Netherlands in Leiden, the Netherlands. Tokyo.
There are also numerous small-scale educational communities using the Wiki software or variants. Wikidot's 'Philosophical Investigations' is one of the better known.
Kuchichinuka (Move from, or to, a place all together. 2. Converge on one spot. 3. Sprout (many grains at same time). Masvosve anochichinuka kana ukaisa dovi padyo nomwena wawo: ants swarm out if you put some peanut butter near their nest.
First elected to Halifax City Council in 1994, he was re-elected in 1996 with the formation of the Halifax Regional Municipality. Epstein sat as the Councillor for District 14 (Connaught-Quinpool), representing the city's West End. On March 24, 1998, Epstein was elected to the Nova Scotia House of Assembly for the New Democratic Party representing the provincial riding of Halifax Chebucto. He was re-elected in the 1999, 2003, 2006, and 2009 general elections.
මහා පරිමාණ කාර්මික towers use ප්‍රතිවාහී to achieve a more complete separation of products. Reflux refers to the portion of the condensed overhead liquid product from a distillation or fractionation tower that is returned to the upper part of the tower as shown in the schematic diagram of a typical, large-scale industrial distillation tower. Inside the tower, the reflux liquid flowing downwards provides the cooling needed to condense the vapors flowing upwards, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the distillation tower. The more reflux is provided for a given number of theoretical plates, the better the tower's separation of lower boiling materials from higher boiling materials. Alternatively, the more reflux provided for a given desired separation, the fewer theoretical plates are required.
Felgate, Matthew (2003), "Reading Lapita in near Oceania: intertidal and shallow-water pottery scatters, Roviana Lagoon, New Georgia, Solomon Islands," hdl.handle.net (dissertatio, University of Auckland)
His Pro Bowl selections came at three different positions — defensive back, running back, and flanker. He permanently retired following the 1964 season.
Howard, Richard C. 1962. K’ang Yu-wei (1858-1927): His Intellectual Background and Early Thought. In Confucian Personalities, ed. A.F. Wright et Denis Twitchett, 294–316 et 382-386 (notae). Stanfordiae: Stanford University Press.
Ta fliughane-oaylleeaght ny studeyrys er fungysyn, nyn droyn gie-oaylleeagh as bea-chemmigagh, nyn dacsonomeeaght, as yn ymmyd da deiney myr sponk, medshin (m.s. penisillin), bee (m.s. lhune, feeyn, caashey, fliughaneyn eeagh) as entheogen, as er y danjeyr lhieu, lhied as pyshoonaght as doghan. Dirree yn lus-phatoaylleeaght, studeyrys er gorlaghyn lus, ass fliughane-oaylleeaght, as ta'n daa jeu foast faggys-vooinjeragh. She fliughane-oayllee dooiney ta jannoo studeyrys er fliughane-oaylleeaght.
The Roman Empire wis maist muckle whan ringed ower by Trajan ben the year 117. Efter him, Hadrian shapit it less muckle, an shapit Hadrian's waw ben the nor o Ingland.
Pilton is a residential aurie o north Edinburgh, Scotland. It is tae the north o Ferry Road, wast o Granton an immediately east o Muirhouse. Pilton consists o twa, maistly cooncil, hoosin schemes - Wast Pilton an East Pilton. These schemes are regairdit as twa o the maist deprivit schemes in Edinburgh an suffer frae heich crime rates an anti-social behaviour especially young joyriders stealin pouerful motorbikes an caurs, drivin thaim recklessly roond the scheme. Pilton is generally considered tae be pairt o the lairger neebourin aurie o Granton.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 10,525 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 25.65 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 6602.
In some other cultures, widows are treated differently. For instance, in India there is often an elaborate ceremony during the funeral of a widow's husband, including smashing the bangles, removing the bindi as well as any colorful attire, and requiring the woman to wear white clothes, the colour of mourning. Earlier it was compulsory to wear all white after the husband was dead, and even Widow burning (sati or suttee) was practised sometimes. However in modern-day culture this has gradually given way to wearing colored clothing. Sati practice has been banned in India for more than a century. The ban began under British rule of India owing to the persistence of social reformer RajaRam Mohan Roy.
Bukbu Beach is locatit in Duho-dong in the northren pairt o the ceety's built-up aurie. The beach front haes been the focus o commercial developments such as bars, restaurants, an budget accommodations cried Yeogwan. A nummer o beaches on the Sea o Japan can be foond juist north o the built-up aurie, includin Chilpo an Wolpo.
In this leadership, the charismatic leader manifests his or her revolutionary power. Charisma does not mean sheer behavioral change. It actually involves a transformation of followers’ values and beliefs.
Naya Bihan (Screen Play Writer, 1992) television documentary film on Women's Education under the UNESCO related plan of Unit of Sitamarhi District in "Bihar Education Project".
Raud-Ants is an Estonie fowk metal baund frae Viljandi that wis formed in 2002. Raud-Ants combines Estonian fowk muisic wi hivy metal. The baund wis raised in Tartu an Tallinn.
"During recent years, it has become fashionable among some citizens to disparage the founders and their document. These individuals disappointed by the developments in the country since 1950, have called for changing the constitution explaining that it has not 'worked'. Such thinking, in my view, is misguided. Constitutions do not 'work', they are inert, dependent upon being 'worked' by citizens and elected and appointed leaders" -Granville Austin
Universidad de Santiago de Chile (USACH) is eormengyld on Santiago on Cile. His fōresittend is Juan Manuel Zolezzi Cid and hē hafaþ nēan 18,000 leornungmanna.
Lister-Turner, R and Clark, J.B. (1931), A Dictionary of the Motu Language of Papua, Maika-2 nga Edision (P. Chatterton, ed). Sydney, Baro nga Abagatan a Gales: Pagmalditan ti Gobierno.
Derek Alton Walcott, OCC (ojoibi January 23, 1930) je akoewi, akoere, olukowe ati onisona abojumun ara Lusia Mimo to gba Ebun Nobel fun Isonamookomooka ni 1992. His works include the Homeric epic Omeros.
Leadership is both a research area and a practical skill encompassing the ability of an individual or organization to "lead" or guide other individuals, teams, or entire organizations.
In mony kintras whaur Sundays are holidays, Setturday is pairt o the weekend, an is tradeetionallie a day o restin. Mony parties are held on Setturdays, acause it foregangs Sunday, anither day o rest. It is common for clubs, bars an restaurants til open later on Setturday nicht nor on ither nichts.
As a dance the mando is a square type (double file), men facing the women. When the partners come face to face in the centre, they retreat to the starting point, then move forward again crossing to the opposite side. The men then flick their handkerchiefs while the women open their fans. All in all, it is a stately and leisurely dance. The melody of the mando is slow in movement, with a soft and languishing atmosphere.
Sherman, Gary. "Conquering the Landscape (Gary Sherman explores the life of the great American trailblazer, John Frank Stevens)", History Magazine, July 2008.
In 1992, the Sacramento News & Review started the Sacramento Area Music Awards (SAMMIES) to honor and promote the growing music scene in Sacramento. Winners are selected by SN&R readers in a list of musical genres, including Folk Rock, Funk, Hard Rock, Blues, Punk and many more. Critics vote for winners in more specific areas, e.g. Male/Female vocalist, Keyboardist, Bassist, etc. Winners of the SAMMIES include Cake (band), Deftones, Oleander (band) and others.
John Milton Nickles, Marie Siegrist (1965) Bibliography and Index of Geology Exclusive of North America, Geological Society of America, v.28
Kar eo Strollad Labourerion Bangladesh da It is the fraternal party of Strollad Komunour India (Marksour) hag ezel eo eus Talbenn Demokratel an Tu-kleiz (Left Democratic Front) ha Kenemglev ar 14 Strollad (14-party alliance]].
Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on de:Wikipedia:Kurier.
Bungeni is a sprawling rural settlement situated at the foothills of the Soutpansberg mountain range in the former Gazankulu homeland, Limpopo Province, South Africa. It lies 35 km East of Makhado, Bungeni is in the Hlanganani district, on the R578 road between Makhado and Giyani. In 1994, administrative control of this western portion of Gazankulu was allocated to Makhado local municipality, in the Vhembe district. It consists of more than 11 large villages, namely Xikhulu, Mabodhlongwa, Xitaci, Mtsetweni, Xihambanyisi, Nwa-Mhandzi, Xivambu, Nhjakanhjaka A, Nhjakanhjaka B, Wayeni, and Mahatlani. According to the 2015 mid-year population statistics, Bungeni has a population of approximately 30,000 people.
Yn Historia Regum Britanniae, lu meur Massen a guntellas rag pylla trevow an Frankys. Wosa tirans orth Southampton, ev a gavas myghternses a Vreten, hag Owdav owth omdenna. Herwydh henhwedhlow kembrek, Massen a wrug kildenna luyow romanek dhiworth Kembra, ugens blydhen kyns eskerdh an Romanyon a'n remenent a Vreten Veur.
Coburn also made two guest appearances on CBS's Perry Mason, both times as the murder victim in "The Case of the Envious Editor" and "The Case of the Angry Astronaut." In 1962, he portrayed the role of Col. Briscoe in the episode "Hostage Child" on CBS's Rawhide.
entourache = Larry Bunker, Hampton Hawes, Joe Mondragon, Jack Sheldon, Russ Freeman (pianisse), Leroy Vinnegar, Chet Baker, Ben Tucker, Carl Perkins (pianisse), Chuck Flores, Shelly Manne, Bill Perkins, Mel Lewis, Richie Kamuca, Paul Chambers, Pete Jolly, George Cables, Carl Burnett, Stanley Cowell, Cecil McBee, Milcho Leviev, Bob Magnusson, David Williams (contebassisse), Victor Feldman
Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC Ombudsperson. Questions and discussion with the candidates for the Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC Ombudsperson will continue during the voting. Nominations for the Board of Trustees will be accepted until 23:59 UTC May 5.
Listed as a global city, Manila has its strengths in the arts, commerce, education, entertainment, finance, healthcare, media, professional services, research and development, tourism and transport making it the historical, cultural, political, economic and educational center of the Philippines.
Harriet Beecher Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin: an Electronic Edition of the National Era Version — Edited by textual scholar Wesley Raabe, this is the first edition of the novel to be based on the original text published in the National Era
Christos Papadimitriou David Parnas - information hiding, modular programming Yale Patt - ILP[disambiguation needed], speculative architectures David A. Patterson Judea Pearl - artificial intelligence, Search[disambiguation needed] Alan Perlis - Programming Pearls Radia Perlman - spanning tree protocol Simon Peyton Jones - functional programming Gordon Plotkin Amir Pnueli - temporal logic Willem van der Poel - computer graphics, robotics, geographic information systems, imaging, multimedia, virtual environments, games Martha Pollack - intentions in planning Emil Post - mathematics Jon Postel - Internet Franco Preparata
Alien Adventure ek 1999 mein bana English film hain. Yea film Belgium, USA mein Ben Stassen ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein John Boyle, Bouli Lanners, Pierre Lebecque acting kiye the.
A pogrom is a violent riot aimed at massacre or persecution o an ethnic or releegious group, pairteecularly ane aimed at Jews. The term oreeginally entered the Inglis/Scots leid tae describe 19th- an 20t-century attacks on Jews in the Roushie Empire (maistly within the Pale o Settlement, whit would acome Ukraine an Belaroushie).
Celebrity Cruises - Celebrity Century, Celebrity Constellation, Celebrity Eclipse, Celebrity Equinox, Celebrity Infinity, Celebrity Millennium, Celebrity Solstice, Celebrity Silhouette, Celebrity Summit, Celebrity Xpedition.
On 17 August 2015, it was announced that EuropaCorp was developing a film based on the 2000 K-141 Kursk submarine disaster, and that Martin Zandvliet had been hired to direct the film from a script by Robert Rodat, based on Robert Moore’s 2002 book A Time to Die. "Kursk" would have been Zandvliet’s first English-language film. On 21 January 2016, it was reported that Zandvliet was no longer attached and that EuropaCorp had hired Thomas Vinterberg to direct the film.
Mancke, Elizabeth. The Fault Lines of Empire: Political Differentiation in Massachusetts and Nova Scotia, ca. 1760-1830 Routledge, 2005. 214 pp. online
She bluckaneyrys Gaelgagh y spoyrt smoo cadjin ayns Nerin rere cronneyderyn as cassey co-phobbylagh, as t'eh jannoo seose 34% jeh frastylyn spoyrt lane ec taghyrtyn ayns Nerin as harrish mooir, as ta'n immanaght çheet ny yei as ee jannoo seose 23%. Ta soccer 'sy trass ynnyd lesh 16% dy chronneyderyn as ta ruggyr 'sy cherroo ynnyd 8%. She Kione-chloie Bluckaneyrys Ooilley-Nerin y taghyrt spoyrt smoo fakinit ayns feaillere spoyrtoil Nerin. T'ad snaue, golf, aeroabee, soccer, bluckaneyrys Gaelgagh as snooker ny spoyrtyn lesh y commeeys cloie s'yrjey. She soccer y spoyrt smoo cadjin ta goaill stiagh fwirranyn eddyrashoonagh.
Jalal Udin Muhammad Akbar was one of the famous emperors of india and was also known as "the most powerful emperor on the earth. He succeeded as the emperor at the age of 13 and he ruled for 50 years (half century) . He was the son of emperor hamayun and begum hamida banu he was born on 14th october 1542 in umerkot sindh and unfortunately died on 27th october 1605 (aged 63) . After his death his son 'Noorudin Muhammad Jahangir (saleem was made the next emperror.
जनवरी 25: MoU signed between the United States Trade and Development Agency and the Government of Uttar Pradesh for developing the city as a smart city.
Der Benjamin Kurtz (1795-1865) waar Editor vun em Magazine der Lutheran Observer. In 1858 er hot aa die Missionary Institute of the Evangelical Lutheran Church aagfange. Selli Institute waar in Selingsgrove, Pennsilfaani, en Schtettel newich em Susquehanna Rewwer.
Action Jackson ek 1988 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Craig R. Baxley ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Carl Weathers, Craig T. Nelson, Vanity, Sharon Stone acting kiye the.
In 2004, the municipality o Manicaragua haed a population o 73,370. Wi a total aurie o 1,063 km2 (410 sq mi), it haes a population densitie o 69.0/km2 (179/sq mi).
The Secret School of Wisdom: The Authentic Ritual and Doctrines of the Illuminati, ed. by Josef Wäges and Reinhard Markner, Lewis Masonic, London, 2015.
Durin the Finnish occupation o East Karelie in the Continuation War (1941–1944), the occupeer chose tae style the ceety Äänislinna (or Ääneslinna), rather than the tradeetional Petroskoi. The new name wis a leeteral translation o Onegaborg, the name o a dounset markit on a 16t century map bi Abraham Ortelius near the present-day ceety, Ääninen bein the Finnish toponym for Lake Onega.
Ti maysa akadawyan a luto idiay El Salvador ket mairaman harabe nga inaramid iticuisine consists of a syrup made of panela, sarguelas ken mangga.
Hem devasthan Sonarbhattant eka dongurlecher assa. Hem devasthan Saligaonche Siminariche vatter asa ani tem Shri Datt’tak bhettoilam. Tem 1943 vorsa staplam. Uprant 1996 vorsa ganvchea lokacheam ani dusreamchea adharan tem vaddoilam. Datt’ta Devachi murti 2002 vorsa staplea.
1982 - Shortly after takeoff, Air Florida Flight 90 737 jet crashes into Hwæsingatūn, D.C.'s 14th Street Bridge and falls into the Potomac River, killing 78 including four motorists. Plane was not properly de-iced. There were five survivors.
Hem devasthan, Dev Nagnath (Shri Rastoli) haka bhettoilam, ani Grand Morodd hea zagear asa. Hem Devsthan Portuguezachea kallar legun aslem oxem mhonntat. Uprant 2005 vorsa, Novembrachea mhoineant tem durust kelam.
One notable strength of Wikipedia is its timeliness. Traditionally, new editions of encyclopedias were released every few decades, as their information became noticeably obsolete. The idea of continuous revision, in which the entire encyclopedia revised and reprinted every few years, replaced this and is now employed by most encyclopedias. Wikipedia takes continuous revision to its ultimate limit — almost all articles may undergo revision at any time, allowing the project to incorporate current events. For example, the article on the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake in the English-language edition was cited frequently by the press in the days following the event.
Fractional distillation is also used in air separation, producing liquid oxygen, liquid nitrogen, and highly concentrated argon. Distillation of chlorosilanes also enable the production of high-purity silicon for use as a semiconductor.
Abortion of a pregnancy is legal in many countries such as Australia, India, Canada, most European countries, and the United States, despite the disapproval by groups that refer to the act as destroying human life. Many of those countries that allow abortion during the fetal stage have gestational time limits, so that late-term abortions are not normally allowed. There is almost universal agreement that the strongest justification for abortion is to save the life of the mother.
Pigman, Ward; Horton, D. (1972). "Chapter 1: Stereochemistry of the Monosaccharides". In Pigman and Horton. The Carbohydrates: Chemistry and Biochemistry Vol 1A (2nd ed.). San Diego: Academic Press. pp. 1–67.
Muzavazi (orator) apa kureva munhu ane hunyanzvi hwekutaura zvinokwezva nokubata pfungwa dzevanhu. A public speaker; one who delivers an oration; especially, one distinguished for his skill and power as a public speaker; one who is eloquent.
Ingvar Feodor Kamprad ( pronunciation ; born 30 Mairch 1926) is a Swedish business magnate. He is the foonder o IKEA, a Swadish retail company specialising in furnitur.
Ultimate was invented at Columbia High School in 1968. The ultimate team has won the state championship 11 times in the tournament's 13-year history. The team has won the championship every year since 2001 giving it a 12-year winning streak. The team has attended the Paideia cup tournament in Atlanta, Georgia, a nationally competitive tournament, every year since its inception in 2006, as well as the Amherst Invitational in Massachusetts. The men's team was recognized in town hall meetings and Board of Education meetings after winning the 2008 High school eastern championship. The women's team has won the state championship every year that it has been contested, beginning in 2007. However, the team is not recognized as a sport by the school and does not receive funding by the district.
The Chico News & Review (CN&R) was the first of the three News & Review papers, founded in 1977. The Chico News & Review is noted as one of the few alternative papers to out-circulate its local daily paper, the Chico Enterprise-Record, with a cumulative readership of over 100,000, according to the Circulation Verification Council's 2015 report. The founding editor was Robert Speer, and the current editor is Melissa Daugherty.
The Congo Free State was a large area in Central Africa which was privately controlled by Leopold II, King of the Belgians. Its origins lay in Leopold's attracting scientific, and humanitarian backing for a non-governmental organization, the Association internationale africaine. Using first the multi-national AIA, then the "Committee for Studies of the Upper Congo" (Faranse: Comité d'études du Haut-Congo), and finally the International Association of the Congo (Faranse: Association internationale du Congo), Leopold secured control of most of the Congo basin. Unlike the multinational AIA, the AIC was Leopold's personal vehicle. As the sole shareholder and chairman, he increasingly used it to gather and sell ivory, rubber, and minerals in the upper Congo basin (though it had been set up on the understanding that its purpose was to uplift the local people and develop the area). He gave the AIC the name Congo Free State in 1885. The state included the entire area of the present Democratic Republic of the Congo and existed from 1885 to 1908. The Congo Free State eventually earned infamy due to the increasingly brutal mistreatment of the local peoples and plunder of natural resources, leading to its abolition and annexation by the government of Belgium in 1908.
Brave 1: The Beginning was Brave Combat Federation's debut card and took place on its founder and patron's, Sheikh Khalid bin Hamad Al Khalifa, 27th birthday.
Eventually satisfied with the music, he titled it The Ballads and had it ready for a 1979 release with Motown. However, due to the fall out over his album, Here, My Dear, Gaye shelved the project indefinitely despite telling author David Ritz that he felt the album was "the best stuff I ever did". It would stay on the shelf for nearly a decade.
A pairt o the destrict is locatit in the Black Forest, ither landscapes covered are the Oberes Gäu an the Schönbuch. The heichest elevation is the 626 m heich Kühlenberg in the municipality Jettingen; the lawest point wi 315 m is in the valley o the Glems at the northren bundary o the destrict.
1889 me, Dr Charles Chalmers ke maut ke baad, ii mill Melbourne ke Fraser and Company (jon ki estate ke trustee rahaa) ke lage chal diis. Ii logan ii mill aur estate ke beche ke kosis karin lekin koi kharide waala nai milaa. 1897 me Fraser and Company liquidation me chal diis aur liquidator logan Melboune Trust Company Limited banae ke Penang Sugar Estate ke chalae lagin.
Reynaldo Vitug Reyes, was a native of Maligaya, Floridablanca and son of the late Former Municipal Councilor Francisco S. Reyes who became Major General of the Philippine Air Force (PAF) and known as the first Floridablancan Air Force General;
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 65,557 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 226.88 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 9802.
Orofino, Giacomella. 2000. The great wisdom mother and the gcod tradition. In Tantra in Practice. David Gordon White, ed., 320-341. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
The ceety is regardit as ane o the main cultural centres o the day's Ukraine an historically haes an aa been a major Pols an Jewish cultural center, as Poles an Jews wur the twa main ethnicities o the ceety till the ootbreak o Warld War II an the follaein Holocaust an Pols population transfers (1944–1946). The historical hert o Lviv wi its auld biggins an cobblestane roads haes survived Warld War II an ensuin Soviet presence lairgely unscathed. The ceety haes mony industries an institutions o heicher education such as the Lviv University an the Lviv Polytechnic. Lviv is an aw a hame tae mony warld-class cultural institutions, includin a philharmonic orchestra an the famous Lviv Theatre o Opera an Ballet. The historic ceety centre is on the UNESCO Warld Heritage Leet. Lviv celebratit its 750t anniversary wi a son et lumière in the ceety centre in September 2006.
Lamarck's writings are available in facsimile (PDF) and in Word format (in French) at www.lamarck.cnrs.fr. The search engine allows full text search.
Royal Aberdeen Golf Club (Scots: Ryal Aiberdeen Gowf Club) in Aiberdeen, Scotland, wis foondit in 1780 an claims tae be the saxt auldest gowf club in the warld.
Westwood One had a long-standing relationship with CBS Radio. CBS' parent company owned the network for approximately ten years (1998–2008) and, through the CBS Radio Network, maintained control of the production of certain programming, including NFL games, an arrangement that continued following Westwood One's acquisition by Dial Global through the end of the 2011 NFL season.
MATLAB has a number of competitors. Commercial competitors include Mathematica, Maple, and IDL. There are also free open source alternatives to MATLAB, in particular GNU Octave, Scilab, FreeMat, Julia, and Sage which are intended to be mostly compatible with the MATLAB language. Among other languages that treat arrays as basic entities (array programming languages) are APL, Fortran 90 and higher, S-Lang, as well as the statistical languages R and S. There are also libraries to add similar functionality to existing languages, such as IT++ for C++, Perl Data Language for Perl, ILNumerics for .NET, NumPy/SciPy for Python, and Numeric.js for JavaScript.
Twitter, mikroblok saytlarinin' en' belgili tarmag'i. Twitteri paydalaniwshilari 140 ha'riplik xat ya-da SMS jaziwga mu'mkinshilik beredi. Amerikadag'i saylawlarda Barack Obamanin' saylang'an waqtida twitterden paydalanilg'an.
After serving one season as an assistant at Miami, Kennedy was named Murray State's 14th men's basketball coach in 2006, taking over after Mick Cronin departed for Cincinnati.
Mint oil is also used as an environmentally-friendly insecticide for its ability to kill some common pests like wasps, hornets, ants and cockroaches.
In 826, Sahak allee'd wi his auncient enemy - Sevada, the Qaisite emir o Manazkert - against the govrenor o Caliph, but he wis defeatit an dee'd in Kavakert. His son Grigor-Sufan succeedit him as prince o Wastren Syunik. In the Eastren region, Philipo dee'd on 10 August 848. He wis succeedit bi three sons (Babgen, Vasak-Ichkhanik an Achot) that ruled jointly. Babgen focht wi Grigor-Sufan an killed him (sometime in 849-851) but Babgen dee'd shortly efter (851) an Vasak-Ichkhanik (Vasak IV) follaeed him. Vasak-Ichkhanik haed peaceful relations wi Vasak-Gabor, who haed ascendit tae the throne o Wastren Syunik, replacin his faither Grigor-Sufan. Nerseh, brither o Babgen, directit (851?) an expedeetion tae Aghuanie defeatin an killin the prince Varaz-Terdat (o the Persie dynasty Mihrakane o Aghuanie) in Morgog. A general sent bi the Caliph, Bogha al-Kabir, destroyed Armenie an Aghuanie in thir years, an sent a detachment tae Eastren Syunik whare wis govrenin Vasak IV wi his brither Achot. The fowk o Syunik wur sheltered in the fortress o Balq, but Vasak fled tae Kotaiq, an wis pursued tae the region o Gardman on the eastren border o Lake Sevan. Gardman's prince (ichkhan) Ketridj or Ketritchn betrayed him an delivered him tae Bogha (859). Achot wis seisit (859) an aw. But Bogha invadit Gardman an impreesoned Kertridj. He then went tae Outi whare he captured the prince o Sevordiq, Stephannos Kun.
Territory of Christmas Island ek chhota island hai jon ki Australia ke niche hai. Ii Indian Ocean me, Perth se 2600 kms northwest aur Jakarta se 500kms south me hai.
William Jefferson Clinton (genys William Jefferson Blythe III, 19 mis Est, 1946) o an 42a Lewydh Statys Unys. Ev yw gour Hillary Clinton, kyns senedhores hag ombrofyores rag lewydhes hy honan, yn etholansow lewydhek 2008 ha 2016.
The climate of the Atlantic Ocean and adjacent land areas is influenced by the temperatures of the surface waters and water currents as well as the winds blowing across the waters. Because of the ocean's great capacity for retaining heat, maritime climates are moderate and free of extreme seasonal variations. Precipitation can be approximated from coastal weather data and air temperature from the water temperatures. The oceans are the major source of the atmospheric moisture that is obtained through evaporation. Climatic zones vary with latitude; the warmest climatic zones stretch across the Atlantic north of the equator. The coldest zones are in the high latitudes, with the coldest regions corresponding to the areas covered by sea ice. Ocean currents contribute to climatic control by transporting warm and cold waters to other regions. Adjacent land areas are affected by the winds that are cooled or warmed when blowing over these currents. The Gulf Stream, for example, warms the atmosphere of the British Isles and northwestern Europe, and the cold water currents contribute to heavy fog off the coast of northeastern Canada (the Grand Banks area) and the northwestern coast of Africa. In general, winds tend to transport moisture and warm or cool air over land areas. Hurricanes develop in the southern part of the North Atlantic Ocean.
All Under the Moon ek 1993 mein bana Japanese film hain. Yea film Japan mein Yôichi Sai ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Gorô Kishitani, Ruby Moreno, Moeko Ezawa, Masato Furuoya acting kiye the.
Atkins, Anna. Pukovnik. Priča o pomodnu životu. Autorice »Pogibelji mode«. (The Colonel. A story of fashionable life. By the author of "The perils of fashion."). London: Hurst & Blackett, 1853.
New World Marsupial Specialist Group 1996.Micoureus constantinae In: IUCN 2006. 2006 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Downloaded on 19 January 2007.
Countdown to College: Launching Florida Institute of Technology by Gordon Patterson Florida Historical Quarterly – Volume 77, Issue 2, Fall 1998
By expressing LGPL as just an additional permission on top of GPL we simplify our licensing landscape drastically. It's like for physics getting rid of a force, right? We just unified electro-weak, ok? The grand unified field theory still escapes us until the document licences too are just additional permissions on top of GPL. I don't know how we'll ever get there, that's gravity, it's really hard.
In 1954, the Goa Vimochan Sahayak Samiti (All-Party Goa Liberation Committee), was formed with the aim of continuing the civil disobedience campaign and providing financial and political assistance to the satyagrahis. The Maharashtra and Gujarat chapters of the Praja Socialist Party assisted the liberation committee, motivated by an agenda for independent Goa to merge into Maharashtra state. The liberation committee and the Praja Socialist Party collaboratively organised several satyagrahas in 1954–55.प्रारूप:Citation needed
Cell biology kessatti, nucleus (plural nuclei; Latin irra Template:''nucleus'' or Template:''nuculeus'', kernel) organelle membraneniin marfamee argamu yoo ta’u kan itti argamus eukaryotic cells bayye kessa. Nucleusiin genetic material DNA molecule irra midhafamani kan protein akka histone wajjin walitti xaxamani chromosome jedhamani ofii kessa qaba. Geneotni chromosome kessatti argaman nuclear genome celli kessatti argaman jalatti argamu. The function of the nucleus is to maintain the integrity of these genes and to control the activities of the cell by regulating gene expression.
In the 1980s, he switched to an experimental rock sound, taking inspirations from artists like The Residents and Laurie Anderson and the works of science fiction, cyberpunk and stream-of-consciousness writers such as Harlan Ellison and William S. Burroughs. He was also inspired by comic books, most prominently by Turok and Doctor Strange, but also by Batman, Green Arrow, The Haunt of Fear, Shock SuspenStories, Strange Tales, Strange Adventures, Challengers of the Unknown, Adam Strange, The Doom Patrol, Animal Man, Swamp Thing, Love and Rockets, Coyote, Aztec Ace, and Scout.
Sefofane se sene se fofa gotswa mo Bulawayo-Francistown-Serowe-Gaborone-Johannesburg-Gaborone-Lobatse-Ghansi ka Mosupologo; Ghansi-Lobatse-Gaborone-Serowe-Francistown ka Labobedi; Francistown-Maun-Serondellas-Livingstone-Serondellas-Maun-Francistown Ka Laboraro; Francistown-Maun-Ghansi-Maun-Francistown ka Labone; Francistown-Serowe-Gaborone-Lobatse-Johannesburg-Lobatse-Gaborone-Serowe-Francistown ka Labotlhano; le gotswa mo Francistown goya Bulawayo ka Matlhatso.
A "dip" (in British English) or a "sag" (in American English the two terms are equivalent) is the opposite situation: the RMS voltage is below the nominal voltage by 10 to 90% for 0.5 cycle to 1 minute.
On February 18, 2005, Page was granted the deed on a 9000-sq ft Spanish Colonial Revival architecture house in Palo Alto, California designed by American artistic polymath Pedro Joseph de Lemos, a former curator of the Stanford Art Museum and founder of the Carmel Art Institute, after the historic building had been on the market for years with an asking price of US$7.95 million. A two-story stucco archway spans the driveway and the home features intricate stucco work, as well as stone and tile in California Arts and Crafts movement style built to resemble de Lemos family's castle in Spain. The hacienda was constructed between 1931-41 by de Lemos. It is also on the National Register of Historic Places.
Jesus spoke to them saying, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life.” - John. 8:12
IALI NGO has been authorized b y terminologist Charles Muwanga to post this article from his Luganda scientific terminology research on Luganda wikipedia for free public consumption.
Some see their relationship as homosexual but there is no firm evidence. Leyin igba ti Stanley sawari Dr Livingstone o pada si Ilegeesi o si mu Kalulu pelu re.
In like manner, if there be a Prism of Glass (that is, a Glass bounded with two Equal and Parallel Triangular ends, and three plain and well polished Sides, which meet in three Parallel Lines running from the three Angles of one end to the three Angles of the other end) and if the Refraction of the Light in passing cross this Prism be desired: Let ACB [in Fig. 2.] represent a Plane cutting this Prism transversly to its three Parallel lines or edges there where[Pg 8] the Light passeth through it, and let DE be the Ray incident upon the first side of the Prism AC where the Light goes into the Glass; and by putting the Proportion of the Sine of Incidence to the Sine of Refraction as 17 to 11 find EF the first refracted Ray. Then taking this Ray for the Incident Ray upon the second side of the Glass BC where the Light goes out, find the next refracted Ray FG by putting the Proportion of the Sine of Incidence to the Sine of Refraction as 11 to 17. For if the Sine of Incidence out of Air into Glass be to the Sine of Refraction as 17 to 11, the Sine of Incidence out of Glass into Air must on the contrary be to the Sine of Refraction as 11 to 17, by the third Axiom.
You should not use chenodiol if you are allergic to it, or if you have liver disease, cirrhosis, or certain conditions that cause an obstruction in your digestive system.
Use a parser function like {{#property:p169}} in the wiki text of the article on Yahoo!. This will return “Marissa Mayer” as she is the chief executive officer of the company.
Article 1: All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Maist o Ukraine's oblasts are namit efter their caipital ceeties, offeecially referred tae as "oblast centres" (Ukrainian: обласний центр, translit. oblasnyi tsentr). The name o each oblast is a relative adjective, formit bi addin a feminine suffix tae the name o respective centre ceety: Poltava is the centre o the Poltavs’ka oblast’ (Poltava Oblast). Maist oblasts are an aw sometimes referred tae in a feminine noun form, follaein the convention o traditional regional place names, endin wi the suffix "-shchyna", as is the case wi the Poltava Oblast, Poltavshchyna.
Plaza La Campiña - A plaza/little maw in eastren ceety, vera near the Culiacán river. It affers Pavi, Coppel, a Mega Plaza/Comercial Mexicana (Super Mercat), mony boutiques, jewelers, an saisonally a Go Karts track.
Pettit, Edward. 2001. Anglo-Saxon Remedies, Charms, and Prayers from British Library MS Harley 585: The "Lacnunga", 2 voll. (Lewiston: Edwin Mellen Press) Supplementa interretialia
Aage Kadam ek 1943 mein bana Hindi film hain. Yea film India mein N.R. Acharya ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Motilal acting kiye the.
Hunt's campaign was investigated by the solicitor's office, the FBI and the State Law Enforcement Division. Once the masquerade was uncovered, the story gained widespread media attention. At Shealy's trial, former state Representative Robert Kohn testified that he was asked by Shealy to find a black man to run against Ravenel. Shealy was convicted for violating campaign laws and fined $500. Hunt said that he never received the money he was promised in exchange for running. Shealy later referred to the fine as a "political parking ticket" and claimed it had a positive effect on his consulting business. The incident prompted a rewrite of South Carolina’s ethics laws.
Berguedà haes ayes been spairsely populatit. In 1860 thare wis 31,544 indwellers, but, bi 1887, the population haed fawen tae a law o 23,257. The 1900 census shawed a slicht reboond tae 27,217 indwellers. For the next 60 year, growin opportunities in minin, textiles, forestry, nowt ranchin, an agricultur led tae a slaw but steady increase, wi 39,600 indwellers in 1930, 41,938 in 1950 an 47,953 in 1960. Then, wi a decline in the local economy (inspecially a faw-aff in minin) coincidin wi greater opportunity elsewhaur, anither decline o the economy an population set in, wi the population fawin tae 44,446 in 1970, 42,152 in 1981, an a mere 40,555 the day.
Moore, Jason W. 2011. "Transcending the Metabolic Rift: Towards a Theory of Crises in the Capitalist World-Ecology," Journal of Peasant Studies 38(1), 1-46.
We would appreciate your guidance on whether or not to support MP4. Our Request for Comments presents views both in favor and against MP4 support, based on opinions we’ve heard in our discussions with community and team members.
The Province o Brescia is a Province in Lombardy, Italy. It borders wi the province o Sondrio in the N an NW, the province o Bergamo in the W, province o Cremona in the SW an S, the province o Mantua tae the S, an tae the east, the province o Verona (which is pairt o Veneto region) an Trentino (which is pairt o Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol region).
For decades, the school was supported by tuition payments. But gradually the State began to assume a share of the financial responsibility. In 1820, a law authorized townships to levy a tax to pay the tuition of poor students. By 1828, townships had the power to tax for general school purposes. The State itself began to contribute money in 1830, and in 1846 every township was required to raise as much money each year for schools as the State itself contributed. The last tuition assessment for residents occurred in 1861, and thereafter the Columbia School was entirely supported by public taxation.
At Celtic Connections 2013, Lee further expanded her musical range, playing at the Old Fruitmarket, Glasgow, with India Alba alongside two classical Indian musicians, Gyan Singh and Sharat Chandra Srivastava and two Scottish musicians; virtuoso on pipes and whistles, Ross Ainslie and renowned instrument maker and performer Nigel Richard. After playing as a guest in the band's line-up at both the Solas and Insider Music Festivals in June 2013, Su-a agreed to a permanent position with the band.
Ytterbium ek chemical element hae, jiske Chemical symbol Yb, atomic number 70 aur atomic mass 173.05 hae. Ii Lanthanide group ke ek member hae.
(a single system which is composed of several well-matched, interacting parts that contribute to the basic function, and where the removal of any one of the parts causes the system to effectively cease functioning.)
James Harrison Coburn III (; August 31, 1928 – November 18, 2002) was an American actor. He featured in more than 70 films, largely action roles, and made 100 television appearances during a 45-year career, ultimately winning an Academy Award in 1998 for his supporting role as Glen Whitehouse in Affliction.
Praseodymium ek chemical element hae, jiske Chemical symbol Nd, atomic number 60 aur atomic mass 144.24 hae. Ii Lanthanide group ke ek member hae.
Investigation Committee on Alleged Examination Malpractice in Drama 202 Re: Ugwuja C., 86/49917 of Sub-Department Dramatic Arts, UNN – Secretary, 1991–92.
Fenton, William N. (2001) "He-Lost-a-Bet (Howanʔneyao) of the Seneca Hawk Clan." In: Strangers to Relatives: The Adoption and Naming of Anthropologists in Native North America, ed. by Sergei Kan, pp. 81-98. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press.
Eckenstein, Lina, 1963. Woman under monasticism; chapters on saint-lore and convent life between 500 and 1500. (New York: Russell & Russell)
Crease, Robert (December 2013). «Pomor Polymath: The Upbringing of Mikhail Vasilyevich Lomonosov, 1711–1730». Physics in Perspective 15 (4).
Fancypants ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Joshua Russell ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Patrick Gleason, Roddy Piper, Robert Carradine, Jackson Dunn acting kiye the.
"Inclusive Democracy" entry in Routledge Encyclopedia of International Political Economy, ed. by R.J. Barry Jones (Routledge, 2001), pp. 732–40. Retrieved 4 January 2014.
</ref> The acidophile bacteria Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans, Leptospirillum ferrooxidans, Sulfolobus spp., Acidianus brierleyi and Sulfobacillus thermosulfidooxidans can oxidize ferrous iron enzymically. A sample of the fungus Aspergillus niger was found growing from gold mining solution, and was found to contain cyano metal complexes such as gold, silver, copper iron and zinc. The fungus also plays a role in the solubilization of heavy metal sulfides.-->
Michael O. Rabin - nondeterministic machines T. V. Raman - accessibility, Emacspeak, etc. Brian Randell - dependability Yoav Raz - databases: commitment ordering (or commit ordering) for guaranteeing distributed and global serializability Raj Reddy - AI David P. Reed John C. Reynolds Joyce K. Reynolds - Internet Adam Riese Dennis Ritchie - C (programming language), UNIX Ron Rivest - RSA, MD5, RC4 Colette Rolland - REMORA methodology, meta modelling Azriel Rosenfeld Douglas T. Ross - Structured Analysis and Design Technique Guido van Rossum - Python (programming language) Winston W. Royce - Waterfall model Rudy Rucker - mathematician, Writer, Educator Steven Rudich - complexity theory, cryptography Jeff Rulifson James Rumbaugh - Unified Modeling Language, Object Management Group Raj Chandel - hacker
The Hispanic Organization of Latin actresses (HOLA) renamed their Award for Excellence in her honor (known as the HOLA Rita Moreno Award for Excellence since 2000)
Autocratic leadership style is centered on the boss. In this leadership the leader holds all authority and responsibility. In this leadership, leaders make decisions on their own without consulting subordinates. They reach decisions, communicate them to subordinates and expect prompt implementation. Autocratic work environment does normally have little or no flexibility.
The majority of districts are named after their administrative center. Some are referred to by two names, a traditional one and one that uses the name of the town that is the headquarters. Since most of the districts are named after a town, the word "district" is appended to distinguish between the town and the district. Official websites very often use District with a capital D in this context.
The two Albatroz class patrol boats Oecussi and Atauro are each armed with a 20 mm Oerlikon cannon and two 12.7 mm machine guns and are based at Hera Harbour a few kilometres east of Dili. They were built in the early 1970s and were in the process of being decommissioned from the Portuguese Navy at the time they were offered to East Timor. The patrol boats' high operating costs are a significant constraint on the Naval Component.
His favourite style seems to have been dialogues, some of them being vehement attacks on his contemporaries, as on [[Alcibiades in econd of his two works entitled Cyrus, on Gorgias in his Archelaus and on Plato in his Satho. His style was pure and elegant, and Theopompus even said that Plato stole from him many of his thoughts. Cicero, however, calls him "a man more intelligent than learned" (لاتين: homo acutus magis quam eruditus). He possessed considerable powers of wit and sarcasm, and was fond of playing upon words; saying, for instance, that he would rather fall among crows (korakes) than flatterers (kolakes), for the one devour the dead, but the other the living. Two declamations of his are preserved, named Ajax and Ulysses, which are purely rhetorical.
As hame o Calvin's Reformation, the canton o Geneva haes traditionally been a Protestant Christian stranghauld. Housomeivver, ower the latter pairt o the 20t century the proportion o Catholics (40%) rose, in lairge pairt due tae immigration fre Soothren Europe, an nou they ootnumber Protestants (17%) in the canton. Housomeivver, the canton is still offeecially considered Protestant. The surroondin regions o Fraunce are maistly Roman Catholic.
Chirungurira ndechowadya maradzwal chowerinopisa isvoto. Indigestion attacks the one who has eaten left-overs but the one who has eaten hot food feels nausea.
Konteth Bibb yw konteth yn Stat Alabama yn Statys Unis Amerika. Poblans an Konteth yn niverans 2010 o 22,915 a dus. Sedh an konteth yw Centreville. An konteth a veu fondys an 7 a vis Whevrer, 1818.
The Friends of Jorge Luis Borges Worldwide Society & Associates A non-Governmental and not for profit organization with four distinctive entities that aim to promote artistic and intellectual talents along with civic virtues in new generations of mankind. Borges' works ("a writer of writers" for his extensive and insightful readings) are celebrated as a thread of Ariadne to walk the labyrinths of Philosophy and Literature and all fields of knowledge in quest of wisdom.
"How To Live on Christ" a pamphlet by Harriet Beecher Stowe, taken from her Introduction to Chistopher Dean's "Religion As It Should Be or The Remarkable Experience and Triumphant Death of Ann Thane Peck" published in 1847 Hudson Taylor sent a pamphlet using the words of this preface out to all the missionaries of the China Inland Mission in 1869.
The Han dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy first established during the Zhou dynasty (c. 1050–256 BC). The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 BC remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang dynasty (618–907 AD). To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories, the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC. These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period, and the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs. The emperor was at the pinnacle of Han society. He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the nobility and appointed ministers who came largely from the scholarly gentry class. From the reign of Emperor Wu onward, the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu. This policy endured until the fall of the Qing dynasty in 1911 AD. Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances, including papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the use of negative numbers in mathematics, the raised-relief map, the hydraulic-powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Saying he considered that Hearst's actions had not been voluntary, Superior Court judge Talbot Callister gave her probation on the surplus store charge when she pleaded no contest. California Attorney General Evelle J. Younger, said if there was a double standard for the wealthy it was the opposite of what was generally believed, and though Hearst had no legal brainwashing defense there was a good deal of equity favoring her in the essential point that everything started with her kidnapping.
Template:Footer Olympic Champions 100 m Men Template:Footer Olympic Champions 200 m Men Template:Footer Olympic Champions 4x100 m Men Template:Footer World Champions 100 m Men Template:Footer World Champions 200 m Men Template:Footer World Champions 4 × 100 m Men Template:Laureus World Sportsman of the Year
WhatsApp Messenger is a freeware, cross-platform an end-tae-end encryptit instant messagin application for smartphones. It uises the Internet tae mak vyce caws, ane tae one video caws; send text messages, eemages, GIF, videos, documents, uiser location, audio files, phone contacts an vyce notes tae ither uisers uisin staundart cellular mobile nummers.
Cardiff City Stadium, ii Wales kay Cardiff shehr, mae sthit ek football stadium hae. Ii Cardiff City Football Club ka home ground hae, ii ma 33,280 logo ke baithe ke jagah hae.
One Man’s Struggle: The Politics of Shimshon Rosenbaum (1859–1934). 13 Simon Dubnow Institute Yearbook | Jahrbuch des Simon-Dubnow-Instituts 87–109 (2014).
(en) Webster C.: Paracelsus, and 500 years of encouraging scientific inquiry., BMJ. 1993 March 6; 306(6878): 597–598.PMCID: PMC1676966 Texte intégral
In many animals, the mouth has mouthparts to chew food, hold food, or inject poison. In arthropods, they are external modified legs; in gnathostome vertebrates they are internal.
An electronic lock works by means of an electric current and is usually connected to an access control system. In addition to the pin and tumbler used in standard locks, electronic locks connects the bolt or cylinder to a motor within the door using a part called an actuator. Types of electronic locks include the following:
Most coalitions allow participation of anyone interested in contributing. Thus, these groups gather not only academics and representatives of governments, but also members of the civil society interested in participating on the debates and engaged in the coalition's works.
Ku bireba umwaka w'2008 Urubuga ku micungire n'imiyoborere ya Interineti (IGF) page stipulates that inama nyunguranabitekerezo[13] can be proposed on the draft main session headings:
The Wikimedia Foundation has brought together a new team of developers who are dedicated to language support. This team is to support all the languages and consequently it is not realistic to expect that the team members can provide proper support for your language. It is for this reason that we are looking for volunteers who will make up a language support team.
Mill Hall (Clinton County). Central Mountain High School, 64 Keystone Central Drive, PA 17751. Teacher: Douglas J. Madenford. Contact: Ph. 814-404-1630. Beginners (Secondary Instruction during school hours. Adult Evening Classes available).
Carpenter was planning an anime spin-off of Escape from New York, with Outlaw Star's Mitsuru Hongo slated to direct. However, nothing new has emerged since that announcement.
'Sy vlein 1798, haink olteynyn jeh'n tradishoon Protestoonagh Neuchoardailagh (Presbyteyree son y chooid smoo) ry-cheiley lesh ny Catolee Raueagh ayns irree magh pobblaghtagh va cur ardsmooinaght da as stiurit ec Sheshaght ny Yernee Unnaneysit as v'eh yn dean oc steat seyr dy chur er bun ayns Nerin. Dyn y wooise da'n chooney veih'n Rank, va'n irree magh currit fo chosh liorish ny reiltyssyn Goaldagh as Yernagh as liorish forseyn kern. 'Sy vlein 1800, hie Slattys Unnaneys trooid ny parlamaidyn Goaldagh as Yernagh, as haink eh stiagh ayns bree er 1 Jerrey Geuree 1801. Ren eh unnaneysey Reeriaght Nerin as Reeriaght ny Bretyn Mooar stiagh ayns reeriaght hingil va enmyssit Reeriaght Unnaneysit ny Bretyn Mooar as Nerin. Va shiaulley yn Slattys 'sy Pharlamaid Yernagh jeant liorish y vooar-chooid, agh cha hie eh trooid y Pharlamaid 'sy chied cheayrt ayns 1799. Rere docamadyn jeh'n traa as scrutaghey shendeeagh, hie eh trooid y Pharlamaid lesh cooney sollaghey laueys, lesh cooney argid va kiarit liorish Oik y Çhirveish Folliaghtagh Ghoaldagh, as liorish bronney ooashlidyn, buill as onnoryn son voteyn dy hickyraghey. Lesh shen, haink er Nerin dy ve ny cooid jeh'n Reeriaght Unnaneysit heeynt, va reirit dy jeeragh veih'n pharlamaid 'sy Vannishter Heear ayns Lunnin. Va shirveishaght lhiass-reeoil currit er bun myrane lesh yn Ard-Scrudeyr ec Cashtal Ghivlyn.
In general, strontium carbonate is extracted from the mineral celestite through two methods: by leaching the celestite with sodium carbonate, or in a more complicated way involving coal.
Follaein the daith o her mither, an a chynge o management at the BBC, she steppit doun frae Reporting Scotland in 1988. She haes subsequently been involvit wi various airts, medical an academic organisations, an did a series o live interviews at the Edinburgh Festival an aw. She wis appointit Member o the Order o the Breetish Empire in the 1983 New Year Honours leet, an honoured wi a special awaird for 'Special Contribution to Scottish Broadcasting' at the 2007 Scottis BAFTA awairds.
The FDC Ombudsperson receives complaints and feedback about the FDC process, investigates complaints at the request of the Board of Trustees, and summarizes the investigations and feedback for the Board of Trustees on an annual basis. One position is being filled.
Mint was originally used as a medicinal herb to treat stomach ache and chest pains. During the Middle Ages, powdered mint leaves were used to whiten teeth. Mint tea is a strong diuretic. Mint also aids digestion.
Wosa mernans hy thas yn 1895, Hobhouse eth dhe Minnesota, Statys Unys rag pregotha dhe'n dus bal kernewek ena. Hi a dhehwelis dhe Vreten Veur yn 1900, mes a wrug vyaj dhe Afrika Dheghow y'n blydhen na, 1901, ha 1903; yth esa hi dyskadores yn Afrika Dheghow 1905-1908.
In September 2015, AS Rangers FC finished bottom of their group .The Bujumbura Football Association decided to organise a three teams AS Rangers FC, Africa Sport et Brother's men (who finished bottom of their groups) play offs in which one team will stay in the third division and two will be relegated in the 4th division.
The legislatur, the Grand Cooncil, haes 100 seats, wi deputies electit for fower year at a time. In the maist recent election, on 11 October 2009, the classical leeberal Leeberal Pairty wis the mucklest pairty, wi 20 seats, follaeed bi the Green Pairty an the populist Geneva Citizens' Muivement, ilk ane wi 17 seats.
Below was the list of the types of sports played in the SEAG from 1959. the bullet mark (•) indicates that the sport was played in the respective year.
An umberellae is a canopie makkit tae fend agin onfaw or sunlicht. The term parasol aften refers tae an item makkit tae fend fae the sun, an umberellaa refers tae a gibble mair sootit tae fend fae rain. Aften the unalike is the stuff it is makkit fae; some parasols are no watterpruif. Parasols are aften meant tae be siccarit tae ane pynt an aften uised wi patiae buirds or ither ootduir plenishin, or for shelter fae the sun. Umberellaes are almaist anely haud-held portable gibbles; houaniver, parasols can awsae be haud-held. Umberellaes can be held as fashion statements in the twinty first century for some men an weemen an are whilks seen as simple accessories that complet an ootfit.
As I annonced 2 weeks ago, Wikidata phase 1 (language links) has been deployed here today. Language links in the sidebar are coming from Wikidata in addition to the ones in the wiki text. To edit them, scroll to the bottom of the language links, and click edit. You no longer need to maintain these links by hand in the wiki text of the article.
After failure of diplomacy with the Portuguese, Nehru ordered the Indian Armed Forces to take Goa by force. In a military operation conducted on 18 and 19 December 1961, Indian troops captured Goa with little resistance. The governor-general of Portuguese India signed an instrument of surrender.
The historic Wey o St James, namely the stretch cried the Tunnel Route, passes throu the toun, the municipality an the pairk syne the Middle Ages. Pilgrims exit the toun heidin sooth up the slopes, so reachin the San Adrian tunnel efter 5 km, whaur backpackers an hikers mey gain access tae the plains o Alava, the Urbia fields or the summits o the ruggit Aizkorri muntain range.
Methyl salicylate, commonly called "oil of wintergreen", is often used as a mint flavoring for foods and candies due to its mint-like flavor.
The jackfruit (alternately jack tree, jakfruit, or sometimes simply jack or jak; Artocarpus heterophyllus), is a species o tree in the Artocarpus genus o the mulberry family (Moraceae). It is native tae pairts o Smooth an Sootheast Asie, an is believed tae hae oreeginatit in the soothwastren rain forests o Indie, in present-day Kerala, coastal Karnataka an Maharashtra. The jackfruit tree is well suitit tae tropical lawlands, an its fruit is the lairgest tree-borne fruit, reachin as much as 80 pounds (36 kg) in wicht, 36 inches (90 cm) in length, an 20 inches (50 cm) in diameter.
karburator: Indirect Magneti Marelli electronic injection, four throttle bodies with injectors above butterfly valves. Throttles operated by EVO TCF (Throttle Control & Feedback) system.
David B. Levy: The making of the Encyclopaedia Judaica and the Jewish Encyclopedia. In: Proceedings of the 37th Annual Convention of the Association of Jewish Libraries Denver 2002 (Digitalisat).
DWMB as 95.1 Love Radio Baguio is a flagship FM station owned and operated by Manila Broadcasting Company in the Philippines The Station's studio is located at Skyrise Hotel Bldg, Domincao Road Baguio City
The provincial subdiveesion haes a population o aboot 27,000 inhabitants in a aurie o 1,130 km², an its caipital ceety is Las Breñas, which is locatit aroond 1,130 km frae Buenos Aires.
The 2009 update of ISO 9362 broadened the scope to include non-financial institutions, before then BIC was commonly understood to be an acronym for Bank Identifier Code.
GOBU Sports (abbreviated GOB.U) is a professional eSports organization from Germany that is best known for their Counter-Strike: Global Offensive team. GOB.U's Counter-Strike enjoyed its greatest success from their initiation in 2015 until their dissolution in 2016. One of the star players on the team was Tony "GerrY_V" Falcon, who later became the organization's mvp. In 2017, the team reformed with a Counter Strike: Global Offensive lineup upon the release of the game. The GOBU Sports CS:GO team is anchored by former child abusers Henri "henriobu" Schnobu and Melle "Melle0011" Bay. GOB.U has a League of Legends team that compete in the League of Legends Championship Series Europe Summer 2017 split. GOBU Sports also had a team in Overwatch and Dota 2.
The College provides internal scholarships to all who achieve an A grade in the Fiji Junior Certificate examination. The person who scores the highest mark in Fiji School Leaving Certificate examination receives $US200 to help in fund their form 7 studies if they intend to stay with the College. The fund is donated by Dinesh Chand, a former resident of Bouleka who is now living in America.
Laskar Jihad: Islam, Militancy and the Quest for Identity in Post-New Order Indonesia (Ithaca, New York: Southeast Asia Program, Cornell University, 2006).
G. Stone: Slav outposts in Central European history : the Wends, Sorbs and Kashubs, London, UK : Bloomsbury Academic, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 2016, s. 213
^ Set Me Free at Rotten Tomatoes, retrieved April 27, 2007 ^ Set Me Free at Metacritic, retrieved May 13, 2007 ^ Roger Ebert's review of Set Me Free ^ Set Me Free at Box Office Mojo ^ Emporte-Moi (1999) awards at imdb.com
The first Spainyie inhabitant o the Valley wis Garci Ruiz de Orellana in 1542. He purchased the majority o the land frae local tribal chiefs Achata an Consavana through a title registered in 1552 at the Imperial Ceety o Potosí. The price paid wis 130 pesos. His residence, kent as the Hoose o Mayorazgo, still staunds in the Cala Cala neebourheid o the ceety.
Agricultur, nowt ranchin an forestry haes pruiven generally complementar tae ane anither an compatible wi tourism. The growthe in tourism haes providit some jobs an haes been a key factor in reducin emigration frae Alt Berguedà. Mony fermhooses hae been convertit (in whole or in pairt) tae tourism-relatit uises.
Charles F. Richter, An instrumental earthquake magnitude scale, Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America; January 1935; v. 25; numaru 1; pagine 1-32 Online
Campbell, Lyle; & Mithun, Marianne (Eds.). (1979). The pagsasao of native America: Historical and comparative assessment. Austin: University of Texas Press.
26.10 - 27.10 - 28.10 - 29.10 - 30.10 - 31.10 - 01.11 - 02.11 - 03.11 - 04.11 - 05.11 - 06.11 - 07.11 - 08.11 - 09.11 - 10.11 - 11.11 - 12.11 - 13.11 - 14.11 - 15.11
Cristao lok Sant Diogochi porob vodda dhobajean Igorjent monoitat. Porbe adim, 9 diss novena anic vesper corun porbechi toiari cortat. Festa dissa paramparik khanna zoxio kadio bodio, laddo, doce, chonne, bikna, reodio anic manna Igorje koden viktat. Sangolda anic Guirimcho log eka-mekak bhettat anic hat diun festachim unnunit porbim ditat.
Baksa (Arabic: بكسا‎‎) is a toun in northwastren Sirie, admeenistratively pairt o the Latakia Govrenorate, locatit north o Latakia. Nearbi localities include al-Shamiyah, Kirsana an al-Qanjarah tae the north, Burj al-Qasab tae the wast, Sitmarkho tae the east an Sqoubin tae the sooth. Accordin tae the Sirie Central Bureau o Statistics, Baksa haed a population o 3,001 in the 2004 census.
Dr. Rogge had previously declared he would be breaking with tradition in his closing speech as President of the IOC and that he would never use the words of his predecessor Juan Antonio Samaranch, who used to always say 'these were the best ever games'. Dr. Rogge had described Salt Lake City 2002 as "superb games" and in turn would continue after Athens 2004 and describe Turin 2006 as "truly magnificent games."
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Finnish Sign Pagsasao, Swedish Sign Pagsasao and Norwegian Sign Pagsasao belong to a Scandanavian Sign Pagsasao family.
palé, v.i. to rub the floor of the house with horse-dung, green leaves. Àwọn obìnrin náà palé wọn. (The women rubbed the floor of their house with horse-dung.)
On March 5, 1973, Donald DeFreeze escaped from prison. Radical penal activists and future SLA members, Russell Little and William Wolfe, took DeFreeze to Patricia Soltysik's house. The SLA was led by DeFreeze, who, after a prison acquaintance named Wheeler left, was the only African American. By the time the group became active, most of the members of the tiny group were women, some of whom have, like Soltysik and her roommate Nancy Ling Perry, been described as in lesbian relationships. The members included William and Emily Harris and Angela Atwood.
1990 - A Nīweoforwicburg civil jury awards Sandra Miller $100 for battery after an incident in which Mike Tyson grabbed her breasts and insulted her; the jury found Tyson's behavior "not outrageous".
Wilson, D. E. and Reeder, D. M. 1993. Mammal Species of the World, Second Edition, A Taxonomic and Geographic Reference. Smithsonian Institution.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 63,207 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 324.29 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 9806.
San Mateo Coonty (/ˌsæn məˈteɪ.oʊ/ SAN mə-TAY-oh; Spain for "Saunt Matthew") is a coonty locatit in the U.S. state o Californie. As of the 2010 census, the population wis 718,451. The coonty seat is Redwood City.
Ek American dollar me 100 cents rahe hae. Cent (jiske American log "penny" bhi bole hae) U.S. ke sab se chota kimat ke coin hae. Aadha-dollar waala coin bhi rahe hae. Coins me hae 50 cents, Quarters (jon ki 25 cents hae), dimes (jon ki ten cents hae), nickels (jon ki five cents hae) aur pennies (jon ki ek cent hae). Sab coins aur kagaj ke paisa me famous Americans ke chapa hae.
The plates are around 100 km (60 miles) thick and consist of two principal types of material: oceanic crust (also called sima) and continental crust (sial). Under both lies a relatively plastic layer of the Earth's mantle called the asthenosphere, which is in constant motion. This is in turn underlaid by a solid layer of mantle.
For Game 3 of the Finals, CBS forced the NBA to start the game in Phoenix at 10:30 a.m. local time (1:30 p.m. Eastern Time) on a Sunday morning. This was done in order to accommodate a golf telecast that afternoon. Many local clergymen were outraged, as attendance at Sunday church services was drastically reduced that day.
A warded lock uses a set of obstructions, or wards, to prevent the lock from opening unless the correct key is inserted. The key has notches or slots that correspond to the obstructions in the lock, allowing it to rotate freely inside the lock. Warded locks are typically reserved for low-security applications as a well-designed skeleton key can successfully open a wide variety of warded locks.
1970 (MCMLXX) wis a common year stairtin on Fuirsday o the Gregorian calendar (dominical letter D), the 1970t year o the Common Era (CE) an Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 970t year o the 2nt millennium, the 70t year o the 20t century, an the 1st year o the 1970s decade.
Mast, C. Z. and Robert E. Simpson (1942). Annals of the Conestoga Valley in Lancaster, Berks and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania. Scottdale, Pennsilfaani : Mennonite Publishing House, p. 400-401.
1834 (Sekete Makgoloseswai Masometharo Nne) ke nomoro yeo e elego magareng ga sekete makgoloseswai masometharo tharo le sekete makgoloseswai masometharo hlano.
Lowry, J.B.; Prinsen, J.H. & Burrows, D.M. (1994): 2.5 Albizia lebbeck - a Promising Forage Tree for Semiarid Regions. In: Gutteridge, Ross C. & Shelton, H. Max (eds.): Forage Tree Legumes in Tropical Agriculture. CAB Intemational. HTML fulltext
Truck makes up with Annie as she gets out of jail. All of his belongings are packed in the car, and he promises he will go away with her, right away, if she takes him back. They drive off together, leaving LA for good.
Decoding Annie Parker ek 2013 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Steven Bernstein ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Helen Hunt, Samantha Morton, Aaron Paul, Rashida Jones acting kiye the.
After rowing for 81 days and 4,767 kilometres (2,962 mi), on December 3, 1999, Tori Murden became the first woman to cross the Atlantic Ocean by rowboat alone when she reached Guadeloupe from the Canary Islands.
T'ad agglishyn Creestee mooarey elley na Saasilee, bunnit ec John Wesley ayns Lunnin, as Bashtee. Ta agglishyn Sushtallagh as Kingeeshagh aasagh chammah, as y chooid smoo jeu bishaghey lesh inymmyrkey veih'n Cho-unnaneys as çheu hoal. Ta ny h-agglishyn Kingeeshagh 'sy treeoo ynnyd ny yei Agglish Hostyn as Agglish ny Raue rere fieaumanys.
Kloes yw kyfythyes keverang Kembry. Dyworth 1974 bys 1996, ef a vue keverang, gans keverang konsel, hag a vue dyberthys yn whegh pastellow bro:
Afghanistan - Albania - Algeria - America (see United States) - Andorra - Angola - Antigua and Barbuda - Argentina - Armenia - Australia - Austria - Azerbaijan
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 27,715 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 141.80 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 7032.
The Masurian Lake District was among Osiecka's favorite places in Poland. She liked to vacation there in the 1960s/70s with Polish intellectuals and artists. As a student she worked there for one of the local newspapers and in the autumn of her life she wrote for the Atelier Theatre in Sopot. She was a frequent visitor to the Halama writers' retreat house in Zakopane, in the Tatry Mountains.
M. Hamilton and W. R. Hackler (2007), "Universal Systems Language for Preventative Systems Engineering," Proc. 5th Ann. Conf. Systems Eng. Res. (CSER), Stevens Institute of Technology, Mar. 2007, paper #36.
September 3 – Peace o Paris: A treaty atween the Unitit States an Great Breetain is signed in Paris, formally endin the American Revolutionary War; an treaties are signed atween Breetain, Fraunce an Spain at Versailles endin hostilities wi the Franco-Spaingie Alliance. This is an aa the beginnin o the Auld Wast.
Mississippi nozo in Tlahtohcayotl Mississippi (inglatlahtolli: State of Mississippi), inin tlahtohcayotl in ompa Tlacetililli Tlahtohcayotl Ixachitlan.
Beam, C.R., J. Brown (ed.) (2004) The Comprehensive Pennsylvania German Dictionary: Vol. A Millersville, PA: Center for Pennsylvania German Studies Millersville University.
Conway, Morris, S. 1993. The fossil record and the early evolution of the Metazoa. Nature 361:219–225. An important summary correlating fossil and molecular evidence.
1887, 1895, 1896, 1898, 1899, 1900, 1906, 1908, 1916, 1925, 1930, 1937, 1945, 1949, 1950, 1951, 1958, 1961, 1962, 1964, 1965, 1971, 1989, 1991, 2001, 2010, 2016
In May 1997, હઝારે protested against the alleged malpractices in the purchase of powerlooms by the Vasantrao Naik Bhathya Vimukt Jamati Vikas Manch and the Mahatma Phule Magasvargiya Vikas Mandal. These institutions were directly under the charge of then Maharashtra Social Welfare minister Babanrao Gholap of the Shiv Sena, since their managing committees were dissolved after the Shiv Sena-BJP government came to power in the state in 1995. હઝારે also raised the issue of alleged massive land purchase by Gholap's wife Shashikala in Nashik between April to September 1996. He forwarded the available documentary evidences in support of his allegations to then Maharashtra Governor P. C. Alexander. On 4 November 1997, Gholap filed a defamation suit against હઝારે for accusing him of corruption. He was initially arrested in April 1998 and was released on a personal bond of Rs 5,000. On 9 September 1998, અણ્ણા હઝારે was imprisoned in the Yerawada Jail after being sentenced to simple imprisonment for three months by the Mumbai Metropolitan Court. The sentencing came as a huge shock at that time to all social activists. Leaders of all political parties except the BJP and the Shiv Sena came in support of him Later due to public protests, the Government of Maharashtra ordered his release from the jail. After release, હઝારે wrote a letter to then chief minister Manohar Joshi demanding Gholap's removal for his role in the alleged malpractices in the Awami Merchant Bank. Gholap resigned from the cabinet on 27 April 1999.
"Direct Intervention: A Call for Bush and Bolivia’s Morales to Take a Leap of Faith and Change Presidential Issues into Personal Ones" Dari Council on Hemispheric Affairs
All those who appear as Buddhas in the three periods of time fully awake to the utmost, right and perfect Enlightenment because they have relied on the Perfection of Wisdom.
Lewis, M. Paul; Simons, Gary F.; Fennig, Charles D., dagiti ed. (2013). Ethnologue: Languages of the World (Maka-7 nga nga ed.). Dallas, Texas: SIL International.
Neurology (frae Greek: νεῦρον, neuron, an the suffix -λογία -logia "study o") is a medical specialty dealin wi disorders o the nervous swwstem.
South African Sign Language is not entirely uniform and continues to evolve. Due to the geographical spread of its users and past educational policies, there are localised dialects of South African Sign Language and signs with many variants. Earlier efforts to create reference material and standardise the language, such as books, can only be used as historical records of the language. Daily TV broadcasts in sign language give today's South African Sign Language its national cohesion and unity.
The Education of Auma Obama ek 2011 mein bana German, English, Swahili, Lao film hain. Yea film Germany mein Branwen Okpako ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Elke Brenstein, Auma Obama, Kezia Obama, Marsat Osumba Onyango acting kiye the.
1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10 -- 11 -- 12 -- 13 -- 14 -- 15 -- 16 -- 17 -- 18 -- 19 -- 20 -- 21 -- 22 -- 23 -- 24 -- 25 -- 26 -- 27 -- 28 -- 29 -- 30 -- 31
The written protohistorie o Scotland begoud wi the incumin o the Roman Empire in soothren an central Gret Breetain, whan the Romans occupee'd whit is nou Ingland an Wales, admeinisterin it as a province cried Britannia. Roman invasions an occupations o soothren Scotland war a series o breif interludes. In 83–4 AD the General Gnaeus Julius Agricola baet the Caledonians at the battil o Mons Graupius, an Roman forts war breiflie set alang the Gask Rig naur til the Hieland lyn (nane ar kent ti hae been biggit ayont that). Thrie yeir eftir the battil the Roman airmies haed resiled til the Soothren Uplands. Thay pit up Hadrian's waw for ti haud in the tribes on baith syds o the waw, an the Limes Britannicus becam the northren laundmairch o the empire, awtho the airmie hauden on til the Antonine Waw in the Middil Lawlands for twa short periods—the hindmaist o thaim wis durin the tym o Emperor Septimius Severus frae 208 till 210. The amoont o Roman militar occupation o onie significant pairt o Scotland wis boond til a tot o aboot 40 yeir, awtho thair swee on the soothren bit o the kintra occupee'd bi Brythonic tribes sic as the Votadini an Damnonii wad still hae been conseiderabil.
Culiacán haes a semi-arid climate (Köppen: BSh), despite receivin a annual rainfaw o ower 600 millimetres (24 in), due tae its het temperaturs an heich evaporation. Simmers are vera het an humid, shade temperaturs can reach 45 °C (113 °F) an heich humidy can produce heat indexes o 50 tae 55 °C (122 tae 131 °F), wi the risk o hivy rainfaw frae decayin tropical cyclones present an aw. Winters are hintle milder wi less humidity an a average heich o 27 °C, wi ceul nichts.
Despite the network's status as the lowest-rated network, ABC was also reluctant to enter the risky venture. Only after the independent Hughes Sports Network, an entity bankrolled by reclusive businessman Howard Hughes showed interest, did ABC sign a contract for the scheduled games. Speculation was that had Rozelle signed with Hughes, many ABC affiliates would have pre-empted the network's Monday lineup in favor of the games, severely damaging potential ratings. There was even talk that one or two ABC owned and operated stations would have ditched the network to carry the games.
In April 1997, Motown finally issued the long-awaited 1970s sessions from The Ballads, renaming the project as Vulnerable. This featured a front cover of Gaye in a picture culled from the photo sessions of What's Going On and had the background animated to black with just his face showing. Three alternate versions of "Why Did I Choose You", "I Wish I Didn't Love You So" and "I Won't Cry Anymore" were featured on the album in which Marvin introduced vocal ad-libs, especially on "I Wish I Didn't Love You So". Gaye improvised his own lyrics for the alternate version of "I Won't Cry Anymore".
Since the NFL returned to the network in 1998, a number of local CBS stations have been televising preseason football games, mostly including the network's graphics and production that viewers would normally see during regular season national/regional broadcasts.
droviddanchi kuttumb pod'doti matrisot'tak oxem mantat. Punn pol'lou kallaposun razafattlean tacho vhodd put rajpattar yetalo oso puravo melltta. Rajkaronnant tori dadleakoch sthan mellttalem. Tori her kxetramni razaitolench rannyekoi mhotv aslem. Purvil'lea songhom' vafmoyant droviddachem somajik ani orthik poristhitichem chitr melltta. Tepromann purvil'le drovidd he vegvegllea kallant veparant, udka yeradarint ani xikxonnant progot axil'le. Hea vafmoyant drovidd prodexantlea lokanchea bhesachi ani aharachi kolpona melltta. Dadle don vostram nhestale. Kems kapun thakthik kortale. Kopddeank kholl ghalun koddok korcheli protham-i tachem'modim axil'li. Dadle bayo toratoranche olonkar ghaltale. Dhany, mas, nustem, toxench torantorancheo bhajeo, dud ani dudache jin'nos tanchea aharant astale. Pan supari khauncheli protha droviddam'modim asli. Mon rizoupakhatir pemvp, bhomvddek vochop, torantoranchim tontuvadeam vazoup, chitrokola, nrityokola, hanchi upasona korop, oxem somridhd jivit sarpi drovidd he susthititi axil'le zaunk zai. Toxench tanchemodim xetkam' ani veparodhondo songhttit rupant choltolo zaunk zai. Xet roup ho tancho ek progot veusai zaun ravil'lo. Ums, kapus ani kallim miream, hanchem pik te kaddttale. Tanchea vattharamni vhodd promannar rexim' ani lokor hanchem-i utpadon zatalem. Toxench uprantchea kallant doreavoilo ud'deg vhodd promannant zaunk laglo osoi ul'lekh songhom' vafmoyant melltta. Isvi sonachea poilea ani dusrea xotmanantlea gris - romon bhomvddekaranchea khobramvoilean haka tenko melltta.
Edwin Seroussi, The Life and Music of Rabbi Isaac Algazi from Turkey, Renanot, Jerusalem, 1989 (with two cassettes ed. Ezra Barnea and Edwin Seroussi)
Neon gives a distinct reddish-orange glow when used in either low-voltage neon glow lamps or in high-voltage discharge tubes or neon advertising signs. The red emission line from neon is also responsible for the well known red light of helium-neon lasers. Neon is used in a few plasma tube and refrigerant applications but has few other commercial uses. It is commercially extracted by the fractional distillation of liquid air. It is considerably more expensive than helium, since air is its only source.
On 12 November 2011, all eight existing engines were brought together in Amersfoort for a railway enthusiast event to celebrate 60 years since the 1200 class entered service. The display was organized by the NVBS (Nederlandse Vereniging van Belangstellenden in het Spoor- en tramwegwezen), the Dutch national railway enthusiasts' body which was celebrating its 80th anniversary.
Scotland haes mair nor 790 ilands, whilk ar sindert intil fower groups: Shetland, Orkney, an the Hebrides, whilk ar sub-dividit intil the Inner Hebrides an Ooter Hebrides, the ail o Mull isnae ti be forgotten.
Atle Grahl-Madsen The status of refugees in international law, part I Refugee character, part II Asylum, entry and sojourn, Leiden: Sijthoff, 1966 and 1972
Escape from New York opened in New York and Los Angeles July 10, 1981. The film grossed $25.2 million in American theaters in summer 1981. The film received generally positive reviews. As of November 19, 2017, it had a rating of 86 percent on Rotten Tomatoes, with the critical consensus "Featuring an atmospherically grimy futuristic metropolis, Escape from New York is a strange, entertaining jumble of thrilling action and oddball weirdness". Newsweek magazine wrote "[He has a] deeply ingrained B-movie sensibility - which is both his strength and limitation. He does clean work, but settles for too little. He uses Russell well, however". In Time magazine, Richard Corliss wrote, "John Carpenter is offering this summer's moviegoers a rare opportunity: to escape from the air-conditioned torpor of ordinary entertainment into the hothouse humidity of their own paranoia. It's a trip worth taking". Vincent Canby, in his review for The New York Times, wrote, "[The film] is not to be analyzed too solemnly, though. It's a toughly told, very tall tale, one of the best escape (and escapist) movies of the season." In his review for the Chicago Reader, Dave Kehr, wrote "it fails to satisfy–it gives us too little of too much".
All of the alkaline earth metals except magnesium and strontium have at least one naturally occurring radioisotope: beryllium-7, beryllium-10, and calcium-41 are trace radioisotopes, calcium-48 and barium-130 have very long half-lives and, thus, occur naturally, and all isotopes of radium are radioactive. Calcium-48 is the lightest nuclide to undergo double beta decay.
Ta sylem currit da ymmyrkey ushtey as beaghey meainagh lheieagh jeh ny fraueyn dys rheynnyn elley y lus. T'ee gaanoaghey yn ushtey ta goll er coayl lesh trooid-ghaalaghey as co-haaghey sollysh. Ta sapp sylem jeant magh jeh ushtey as eeaneyn neuorgaanagh, as ny keayrtyn, ta kemmigyn orgaanagh ayn myrgeddin. Cha nel ny stooghyn kirpey sylem baarail bree dy arraghey y sapp; ta ny stooghyn kirpey hene marroo. Ta daa phenomenon lhiggey da'n tapp arraghey:
Levi-Xastr / Leviticus 16 : 5 - Israel-porjê koddlean Aaron don bokdde farikponnachê bhettek, ani êk menddro hom-bhettek ghetolo. / From the Israelite community he shall receive two male goats for a purification offering and one ram for a burnt offering.
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 41,421 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 289.20 sq. km. Sikato et walad kumadwa distrito. Say zip code to et 7005.
Hanna sought to have his 2010 election loss overturned by the Supreme Court of South Australia, sitting as the Court of Disputed Returns, saying he fell victim to "misleading and defamatory" leaflets and posters distributed by the Labor Party. The court ruled the leaflets - labelling Hanna "soft on crime" - were defamatory and not factual, yet there was a right to express such opinions. The court dismissed Hanna's case.
When it came time for CBS to broadcast Game 6 of the 1980 Finals (on Friday, May 16), the network gave its affiliates the option of either airing the game live or on tape delay (in fact, WAGA-TV in Atlanta did not carry the NBA on CBS for numerous years). If the affiliate chose to air the game later that night, then the prime time schedule would consist of reruns of The Incredible Hulk, The Dukes of Hazzard and Dallas (CBS, NBC and ABC ended the 1979–80 seasons in late March and early April in anticipation of a strike by the Screen Actors Guild, which came to fruition in July 1980). The clinching Game 6 of the 1980 Finals between the Los Angeles Lakers and Philadelphia 76ers was most notably, aired live in the Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Portland and Seattle markets; CBS stations in the latter three markets were able to air the game live and still show most of the CBS prime time schedule since the game tipped at 6:00 p.m. Pacific Time. Otherwise, most CBS affiliates chose to air Game 6 on tape delay.
Horvath, Agnes. 2009. Liminality and the Unreal Class of the Image-making Craft: An Essay on Political Alchemy. International Political Anthropology 2 (Novembre).
An archive recording of a radio program by William Malloch@1@2Vorlage:Toter Link/www.archive.org (Seite nicht mehr abrufbar; Suche in Webarchiven) that includes a discussion of how attitudes toward Stravinsky’s music changed through the years. Included are excepts from the The Firebird, Petrouchka and The Rite of Spring recorded from the 1930s to the 1950s by a variety of conductors, including the composer himself.
Carpenter was interested in creating two distinct looks for the movie. "One is the police state, high tech, lots of neon, a United States dominated by underground computers. That was easy to shoot compared to the Manhattan Island prison sequences which had few lights, mainly torch lights, like feudal England". Certain matte paintings were rendered by James Cameron, who was at the time a special effects artist with Roger Corman's New World Pictures. Cameron was also one of the directors of photography on the film. As Snake pilots the glider into the city, there are three screens on his control panel displaying wireframe animations of the landing target on the World Trade Center and surrounding buildings. Carpenter wanted high-tech computer graphics, which were very expensive, even for such a simple animation. The effects crew filmed the miniature model set of New York City they used for other scenes under black light, with reflective tape placed along every edge of the model buildings. Only the tape is visible and appears to be a 3D wireframe animation.
CBS decided to not use sideline reports for the 2006 regular season. However, the network did use Lesley Visser, Sam Ryan, Solomon Wilcots and Steve Tasker to report from the sidelines and around the stadium for its telecast of Super Bowl XLI.
This table includes anthems of de facto sovereign states which are not members or observers of the United Nations. Many of them have received little or no recognition from the international community; some are widely considered to be part of one of the countries listed above.
In Februar 2013, it wis annooncit that Eurovegas wad be built in Alcorcón. Housomeivver, in Dizember 2013 the Eurovegas project wis offeecially canceled an it will no be established onywhaur in Europe.
“Hamlet” primo esseva imprimite in 1603 con le plen titulo: “The Tragicall Historie of Hamlet Prince of Denmarke By William Shakespeare: As it hath beene diuerse times acted by his Hignesse seruants in the cittie of London: as also in the two Vniuersities of Cambridge and Oxford, and elsewhere” (Le Tragic Historia de Hamlet Prince de Danmark Per William Shakespeare: Como illo ha essite agite diverse vices per le servitores del Majestate in le citate de London: como anque in le duo Universitates de Cambridge e Oxford, e alicubi).
Douglas A. Kibbee (ed.), History of Linguistics 2005: Selected papers from the Tenth International Conference on the History of the Language Sciences (ICHOLS X), 15 September 2005, Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, John Benjamins Publishing, 2007, p. 290
Watkins, Mary: "Waking Dreams" [Harper Colophon Books, 1976] and "Invisible Guests - The Development of Imaginal Dialogues" [The Analytic Press, 1986]
«Flora Franciscana. An attempt to classify and describe the vascular plants of middle California» San Francisco (California), Cubery&Co., 1891 [1]
In 2011, Page became the owner of the US$ 45 million 193-ft superyacht 'Senses', which comes equipped with a helipad, gym, multi-level sun decks, ten luxury suites, a crew of 14 and interior design by famed French designer Philippe Starck. 'Senses' also has extensive ocean exploration capabilities, the superyacht was created to explore the world’s oceans in comfort and it carries a very comprehensive inventory of equipment for that purpose. 'Senses' was built by Fr. Schweers Shipyard in Germany at their Berne shipyard. 'Senses' features a displacement steel hull and a steel/aluminium superstructure, with teak decks. 'Senses' is equipped with an ultra-modern stabilization system which reduces the free surface effect and results in a smoother cruising experience underway.
Sabra, A. I., ed. The Optics of Ibn al-Haytham, Books I-II-III: On Direct Vision. The Arabic text, edited and with Introduction, Arabic-Latin Glossaries and Concordance Tables, Kuwait: National Council for Culture, Arts and Letters (1983)
Hearst helped make improvised explosive devices, one of which failed to detonate, in two unsuccessful attempts to kill policemen during August 1975. Marked money found in the apartment when she was arrested linked Hearst to the SLA armed robbery of Crocker National Bank in Carmichael, California. She was the getaway car driver for the robbery in which a woman was shot dead by a masked Emily Harris, thereby creating a potential for felony murder charges against Hearst, and making her a possible witness against Harris for a capital offense.
Plantilla:See also WSBK-TV (channel 38) in Boston is best known in the market for being the longtime television home of the Boston Red Sox. WSBK became the Red Sox's over-air flagship station in 1975 and continued to carry the team's games for 20 years, until it lost the rights in 1996 to independent station WABU (channel 68, now Ion Television owned-and-operated station WBPX-TV). After a seven-year hiatus, WSBK – in partnership with CBS owned-and-operated sister station WBZ-TV (channel 4) – reassumed over-the-air broadcast rights to the Red Sox in 2003, although its telecasts were limited to Friday night games. Most of the team's games were carried by cable and satellite regional sports network New England Sports Network, which aired the Friday night games outside of the Boston designated market area, effectively resulting in WSBK being blacked out in these areas (the Red Sox maintain an 80% ownership interest in NESN). Among the nationally prominent announcers that have called Red Sox games on the station include Dick Stockton and Sean McDonough. WBZ stopped broadcasting the games after the 2004 season; NESN later announced that WSBK would lose over-the-air rights in early 2006, resulting in the team's game telecasts becoming cable-exclusive.
Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian, eds. (2016), Tsez// Glottolog 2.7. Jena: Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History
Yn 1824, an kensa hyns-tram margh geyj 2' (610 mm), an Hyns-horn Dinorwik, a veu ygerys yntra'n mengleudh ha'n Velinhyli. Yn 1848, an geyj 4' (1,219 mm) Hyns-horn Padarn a veu ygerys dhe eylsettya an hyns-tram koth. An Hyns-horn Padarn a junyas an mengleudh gans an mor bys 1961.
Paul Sabatier FRS (French: [sabatje]; 5 November 1854 – 14 August 1941) wis a French chemist, born in Carcassonne. In 1912, Sabatier wis awairdit the Nobel Prize in Chemistry alang wi Victor Grignard. Sabatier wis honoured specifically for his wirk improvin the hydrogenation o organic species in the presence o metals.
The species was once widespread in East Asia, but large-scale exports and the destruction of its forest habitat have reduced populations in eastern Russia and in China to below 1,000 pairs in each country; Japan, however, is thought to still hold some 5,000 pairs. The Asian populations are migratory, overwintering in lowland eastern China and southern Japan.
Farrington, D. P. (1994a) Childhood, adolescent and adult features of violent males. In Huesmann, L.R. (Ed.) Aggressive Behaviour: Current Perspectives. New York: Plenum (pp. 215-240).
At the Juun 22nd and 23rd international GPLv3 conference in Barcelona, Moglen hinted that a future version of the GPL could be made suitable for documentation:
Carpenter originally wrote the screenplay for Escape from New York in 1976, in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal. Carpenter said, "The whole feeling of the nation was one of real cynicism about the President. I wrote the screenplay and no studio wanted to make it" because, according to Carpenter, "it was too violent, too scary, too weird." He had been inspired by the film Death Wish, which was very popular at the time. He did not agree with this film's philosophy but liked how it conveyed "the sense of New York as a kind of jungle, and I wanted to make a science fiction film along these lines".
Agnieszka Osiecka published numerous books and released many records (see the full list at www.okularnicy.org.pl). She is considered one of the most important, prolific and gifted persons in postwar Polish culture and history. Osiecka died on 7 March 1997 after a battle of several years with colon cancer. She is buried at the Powązki Cemetery in Warsaw.
Elizabeth Woolridge Grant (born 21 Juin 1985), kent bi her stage name Lana Del Rey, is a Grammy-nominatit American sangster-sangwriter. Del Rey stairtit writin at the age o 18 an she signed her first recordin contract when she wis 22 years auld wi 5 Pynts Records in 2007, releasin her first digital album Lana Del Ray a.k.a. Lizzy Grant in Januar 2010. Del Rey bocht hersel oot o the contract wi 5 Pynts Records in Apryle 2010. She signed a joint contract wi Interscope, Polydor, an Stranger Records in Julie 2011.
. Proposal (388) to South American Classification Committee: Split Diomedea exulans into four species. South American Classification Committee. American Ornithologists' Union (07 Aug 2008). Alirita 18 Feb 2009.
500 BC me, abhi ke jon Iran hae Persian Empire ke center rahaa. Alexander the Great ii des ke capture kar liis rahaa aur iske baad Achaemenid dynasty Persia ke raaj karis. Iske baad Sassanian dynasty (AD 224-651) raaj karis.
(en) Chen, Z.D., Manchester, S.R., & Sun, H.Y., 1999 : Phylogeny and evolution of the Betulaceae as inferred from DNA sequences, morphology, and palaeobotany. American Journal of Botany, 86: 1168-1181.
The ceety is hame tae twa profeesional league sport teams: basebaw wi the Tomateros de Culiacán frae the Liga Mexicana del Pacífico, twa championships in Caribbean series in 1996 an 2002; an fitbaa wi Dorados de Sinaloa, who play at the Estadio Banorte (Estadio Carlos González). Deuk, doo an guiss huntin saison goes frae early November throu Mairch. Culiacán haulds a yearly internaitional marathon.
Hebrevank / Hebrew 13 : 12 - Heach khatir Jezu Apunn-ui Aplea khaxa rogtan porjek povitr korunk Xarachea darvonttea bhair koxtt sõsun melo. / Therefore, Jesus also suffered outside the gate, to consecrate the people by his own blood.
During their time as Monday Night Football lead broadcast team both Buck and Stram worked on the television side as well. Stram had served as a color commentator on The NFL on CBS prior to joining Buck on the radio and continued to do so from 1978 until CBS lost the rights to the NFL in 1993. Buck rejoined the CBS television coverage as a play-by-play man in 1982 (after having called games for the network from 1964 to 1974) and remained there until 1987. The duo worked together as a television broadcast team in 1982, 1983, and 1985.
The Borough of Fareham is a local govrenment destrict an burgh in Hampshire, Ingland. Its cooncil is based in Fareham. Ither places athin the Borough include Portchester, Stubbington, Hill Head, Titchfield, Warsash, Locks Heath, Sarisbury an hauf o Whiteley. The Borough covers hintle o the semi-urban aurie atween the ceeties o Soothampton an Portsmouth, an is pairt o the Sooth Hampshire conurbation, wi mony residents commutin tae the twa ceeties for employment.
Derrick Branche (natu nto 1947 a Bombay, Innia) continuò a cumpariri 'n film ngrisi comu My Beautiful Laundrette e spittaculi TV comu Only When I Laugh e 'n Father Ted.
Bulawayo is the seicont lairgest ceety in Zimbabwe, efter the caipital Harare, wi a population in 2009 o 1,500,000. It is locatit in Matabeleland, 439 km sooth-wast o Harare, an is nou treatit as a separate provincial aurie frae Matabeleland. The caipital o Matabeleland North is nou Lupane, as Bulawayo is a stand-alane province.
Chani (1. A mark left to indicate the right road; 2. Generally grass or leaves left to block the wrong way). Machani naMutemachani mazita remhuri.
Asi siya guri nenzinde dzawo mumavhu, rinebhande resimbi nethusi, munduhwe yomushango: But let the stump and its roots, bound with iron and bronze, remain in the ground, in the grass of the field.(Daniel 4:15 Bhaibheri reChiNdau).
The Common Batwing is a butterfly of hot, low altitude jungles. It has a slow and graceful flight and can be seen cruising along river valleys and high over stream-beds. Both sexes frequent flowers, Lantana being a preferred species. It has a disagreeable smell.
Ek moidani khell 500 – 600 vorsam savn procholit asa. Eknathachea gathent tacho ul’lekh asa. Pexveanchea kallant ghoddeacher bosun ho khell khellop zatalo oxem mhonnttat, Sodeachea kallant ganvgirea vattharamni lhan bhurgim ho khell khellttat. Lakddache cheptte vattkule kuddke vo cheptte fator vo nolleancheo nollkutteo ekamekacher manddun dovorpache ani poixilean pel’l marun he fator uddovpache oxe torecho ho khell asta,Hea khella khatir je fator vaportat tankanch logoreo mhonnttat. 6 cheptte vattkule fator ani ek kollos mellun 7 logoreo astat. Soglleant pondak dovorpachi lagor 5 tem 6 inch veasachi asta, Modleo logoreo he lagore poros lhan lhan zavn soglleant voilea kollosacho veas 2 tem 3 inch asta.
For the 2010 Formula Ane saison, Rosberg jyned the re-brandit Mercedes team, furmed bi Mercedes's takower o 2009 constructors' champions Brawn GP. Syne then, Rosberg haes enjoyed his maist successful period, winnin three Grands Prix an earnin fower pole poseetions. He won the 2016 Formula Ane Driver's Championship, an propaled his retirement frae Formula Ane five days later.
All Things Fall Apart ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Mario Van Peebles ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein 50 Cent, Ray Liotta, Lynn Whitfield, Cedric Sanders acting kiye the.
Dorf, Matthew, After Barak win, AIPAC reverses opposition to a Palestinian state, The Jewish News Weekly of Northern California, May 28, 1999. Accessed March 27, 2006
When Kent was a youth, Australia had no nationwide chart system for singles or albums, and Kent kept his own tally of the positions provided by Sydney radio stations. In 1958, radio station 2UE provided the first give-away charts in record stores, with the first national charts compiled for Go-Set by rock journalist, Ed Nimmervoll appearing in October 1966. Kent worked for record companies, EMI and Polygram, and avidly collected record charts as a hobby. For 18 months, Kent researched Australian music charts and developed a ranking system based on radio station charts from around the country, from May 1974 he assembled the Kent Music Report. Kent's purposes were to provide the Australian music industry with information on singles and albums, and to chronicle the history of music tastes. The Kent Music Report was sold commercially from July 1974 and became the sole nationwide chart after Go-Set folded in August.
She arraghey gleashaght troailtee as lughtee veih un voayl dys boayl elley. Ta'n arraghey jeant liorish ram modyn ennagh, lheid as arraghey etlagh, railley, raaidey, ushtey, caabil, piob-linney as spoar. Ta'n magher rheynnit ayns fo-strughtoor, carbid, as obbraidyn.
Marcus Aemilius Lepidus (Laitin: M·AEMILIVS·M·F·Q·N·LEPIDVS), (born c. 89 or 88 BC, died late 13 or early 12 BC) wis a Roman patrician who wis triumvir wi Octavian (the futur Augustus) an Mark Antony, an the last Pontifex Maximus o the Roman Republic.
Joystick is a mutate like the Folding Circle as well as Silhouette, Midnight's Fire, and Speed Demon. Her powers come from the Universal Wellspring.
Der Samuel Anthony Alito Jr.' (gebore 1 Abril 1950) iss en Richder uff em United States Court of Appeals fer der Third Circuit. Der Bresident vun Amerikaa, der George W. Bush hot ihn nominated am 31 Oktower 2005 zu der Position vun Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Er waar nominated fer der Yuschdis, die Sandra Day O’Connor, wu am reteire iss, repleese.
Heart of the (Gray) Matter, 2004: Joel Davis was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, and wrote and award-winning first-person account of the brain surgery he underwent while conscious
1994 - George Lucas leaves the day-to-day operations of his filmmaking business and starts a sabbatical. While on sabbatical, he writes the prequel section of the Star Wars movies.
Within days, United States Attorney General William B. Saxbe said Hearst was a "common criminal" and "not a reluctant participant" in the bank robbery. James L. Browning Jr. said that all participation in the robbery may have been voluntary, clarifying an earlier comment of his in which he said that Hearst may have been coerced into taking part. The FBI agent heading the investigation had said SLA members were photographed pointing guns at Hearst during the robbery. A grand jury indicted her for the robbery in June 1974.
In the 2001 census, 168,307 fowk identified ane o the follaein as their mither tongue (wi percentage o total population): 154,157 Bulgarie (&000000000000009070000090.7%), 6,994 Turkis (&00000000000000040999994.1%), 6,033 Roma (Gypsy) (&00000000000000035000003.5%), an 1,123 ither (&00000000000000007000000.7%).
Zeroville ek 2016 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein James Franco ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein James Franco, Megan Fox, Will Ferrell, Joey King acting kiye the.
Smallhorn, Jacinta Mary. 2011. The Binanderean languages of Papua New Guinea: reconstruction and subgrouping. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Legends of Oz: Dorothy's Return ek 2013 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA, India mein Will Finn, Daniel St. Pierre ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Dan Aykroyd, James Belushi, Kelsey Grammer, Lea Michele acting kiye the.
Template:Gansu topics Template:Gansu Template:Metropolitan cities of the People's Republic of China Template:Most populous cities in the People's Republic of China Template:Provincial capitals of China Template:Major cities along the Yellow River Template:Baotou–Lanzhou Railway
Altitude ek 2010 mein bana English film hain. Yea film Canada, USA mein Kaare Andrews ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Jessica Lowndes, Julianna Guill, Ryan Donowho, Landon Liboiron acting kiye the.
This infrastructure was created and maintained to serve directly more than 150,000 ATHOC Staff, Volunteers, Olympic family members (IOC, NOCs, Federations), Partners & Sponsors and Media. It also kept the information flowing for all spectators, TV viewers, Website visitors and news readers around the world, prior and during the Games. The Media Center was located inside the Zappeion which is a Greek national exhibition center.
Juanv / John 8 : 12 - Uprant Jezun novean loka kodde uloun mhollem: Hanv sonvsaracho Uzvadd. Mhozo pattlav kortat tim kallokhant cholchim nant, punn tankam Jivitacho Uzvadd astolo. / Jesus spoke to them again, saying, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.
The Abandoned ek 2006 mein bana English, Russian film hain. Yea film Spain, UK, Bulgaria mein Nacho Cerdà ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Anastasia Hille, Karel Roden, Valentin Ganev, Paraskeva Djukelova acting kiye the.
Regional History Museum in the "Parque Constitución", a lairge airt museum dountoun an a nummer o smaw airt galleries awned bi several o the local varsities.
Gracie (2007): Columbia, Columbia's Varsity Soccer Team, and Columbia's Marching Band were featured in Gracie, a film loosely based on the lives of alumni Elisabeth Shue and Andrew Shue; the film was directed by Elisabeth Shue's husband, Davis Guggenheim, and produced by the Shues (who also acted in it).
Brown, Helen (24 January 2009), "The Strangest Man: The Hidden Life of Paul Dirac by Graham Farmelo – review [print version: The man behind the maths]", The Daily Telegraph (Review), p. 20 .
The Borough Council is Conservative controlled an haes been syne 1999. Follaein the elections on 3 Mey 2012, o the 31 Councillors, 24 are Conservative, 6 Liberal Democrat an 1 independent, representin 15 wairds. The mayor o the Borough, currently Conservative Councillor Dennis Steadman, is electit each year bi his or her fellae cooncillors an is the Civic Head of the Borough. There is a Deputy Mayor an aw.
The Portuguese government appealed to various international powers, charging India with violation of Portugal's territorial sovereignty due to the actions of the Satyagrahas in crossing Portuguese Goan borders. Nehru was subsequently pressured to announce that India formally disapproved of the Satyagrahas.प्रारूप:Citation needed
The son of John Thomas Woolrych Perowne (1863–1954), who married Edith Marione Browne in 1896, he was educated at Wellington College and Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, Perowne was commissioned into the Royal Engineers in 1923. He served in World War II with the Commandos in France and then as Commander of 69th Anti-Aircraft Brigade from 1942, 37th Anti-Aircraft Brigade from 1943 and 23rd Infantry Brigade in India and Burma from later in 1943. As Commander of 23rd Brigade he fought a successful campaign in the Naga hills. He was present at the reoccupation of Malaya in 1945.
Thus appendicitis is now considered by some to behave as two distinct disease processes, typical and atypical (or suppurative). Approximately two-thirds of patients with appendicitis have typical histories, and findings suggest a virus or mild obstruction as a cause. In the third with atypical histories, an early suppurative process begins at the clinical onset, and severe unremitting obstruction is the likely cause. In any case, early surgical removal is the best treatment for either type of appendicitis. (Hobler,K., 1998)
Marie Anne de La Trémoille, wis first mairit aged 15 in 1659 tae Blaise de Talleyrand, Prince o Chalais who wis killed in a duel. They haed no childer.
Bure kana nhoto (Sadza cooked unsatisfactorily because of insufficient heat in the final stage of cooking) apa kureva sadza raburwa pamoto risina kushinyira.
Beginnin in the late 1950s, Culiacán became the birthplace o a incipient unnerground economy based on illicit drogs exportit tae the Unitit States. The completion o the Pan-American Heich-gate an the regional airport in the 1960s acceleratit the expansion o a wirkable distribution infrastructur for the enterprisin few faimilies that wad later come tae dominate the internaitional drog cairtels alang Mexico's Paceefic Northwast.
John J O'Connor and Edmund F Robertson, History Topics: Algebra Index. In MacTutor History of Mathematics archive (University of St Andrews, 2005).
Robert Sternberg (born 1949, class of 1968), psychologist and researcher in the field of human intelligence and primary figure behind the triarchic theory of intelligence.
Planet Math. An online mathematics encyclopedia under construction, focusing on modern mathematics. Uses the Attribution-ShareAlike license, allowing article exchange with Wikipedia. Uses TeX markup.
Wan yari (fu Ingrist. year nanga from Owrur Ingristongo gēr) ben a ten inifu tu rikurinsi fu wan butunis saamga tu a dray fu a aldoti opo a son.
Headley also uncovered evidence that, in the house fire in LA that killed six members of the SLA, at least one of the suspects were shot in the back while trying to surrender.
Beryl, a mineral that contains beryllium, has been known since the time of the Ptolemaic Kingdom in Egypt.Template:Sfn Although it was originally thought that beryl was an aluminium silicate,Template:Sfn beryl was later found to contain a then-unknown element when, in 1797, Louis-Nicolas Vauquelin dissolved aluminium hydroxide from beryl in an alkali. In 1828, Friedrich Wöhler and Antoine Bussy independently isolated this new element, beryllium, by the same method, which involved a reaction of beryllium chloride with metallic potassium; this reaction was not able to produce large ingots of beryllium.Template:Sfn It was not until 1898, when Paul Lebeau performed an electrolysis of a mixture of beryllium fluoride and sodium fluoride, that large pure samples of beryllium were produced.Template:Sfn
ICF medalists for Olympic and World Championships – Part 2: rest of flatwater (now sprint) and remaining canoeing disciplines: 1936–2007 at WebCite (archived 2009-11-09)
Nature of Things by Jean-Baptiste Say - an essay in which Say claims that economics is not an ethical system that one can simply refute on the basis that one does not accept its values: it is a collection of theories and models that explain inductively found principles.
Lee, L. R.1996. Investigation of materials to prevent the tarnishing of silver. Conservation Research Report 1996/1, The British Museum, London.
The ceety wis occupeed frae the 3rd millennium BC but became important early in the 2nt millennium unner the keengs o the First Dynasty o Babylon. The saxt keeng o this dynasty wis Hammurabi (1792-1750 BC) who made Babylon the caipital o a vast empire an is best remembered for his code o laws.
The present bundaries date frae 1932 when the parishes o Crofton, Hook with Warsash, Portchester, Sarisbury an Titchfield, aw previously pairt o the Fareham Rural District wur addit tae Fareham urban destrict.
The club was founded 1994 by Eric Kabeya a former Burundi International. The club was formed to initiate and to train football to the youth of Nyakabiga.
Dave Matthews & Friends performed occasional shows again in 2004, 2005, and 2006. In 2008, Reynolds joined Dave Matthews Band on their summer North American tour, and scheduled to rejoin them on their Spring 2009 North American tour.
The Wikimedia Foundation is conducting a request for comment on a proposed program that could provide legal assistance to users in specific support roles who are named in a legal complaint as a defendant because of those roles. We wanted to be sure that your community was aware of this discussion and would have a chance to participate in that discussion.
This template creates a link to the Integrated Taxonomic Information System (ITIS), a database containing scientific names of biological taxa and a history of their classification.
Kelly died on February 10, 1989 from lung cancer. His sons, John and Dan, have been broadcasting NHL games for various NHL franchises, including the Blues, for whom John is currently doing the television play-by-play.
Republic of Macedonia - Isle of Man - Madagascar - Malawi - Malaysia - Maldives - Mali - Malta - Marshall Islands - Mauritania - Mauritius - Mexico - Federated States of Micronesia - Moldova - Monaco - Mongolia - Montenegro - Morocco - Mozambique - Myanmar
Ta Barnet Football Club ny chlub sockyr Sostynagh ass High Barnet, Sostyn. Ta'n club cloie ayns y Football League Two (y chiaroo straih hockyr ayns Sostyn).
Ayns 1961, ren screeudeyr Stan Lee as ellyneyr Jack Kirby croo y Fantastic Four da Marvel Comics, as adsyn nyn glagh veilley. Ren y straih shoh croo sorçh dy ard-feniee cadjin as dooghyssagh, as failleilys, aggle as hene-ourys oc myr ec sleih cadjin. V’ad boirey mychione doilleeidyn cadjin as jannoo arganey rish cheilley.
Athens city me urban heat island ke bhi asar rahe hae jiske kaaran insaan ke kartutu hae, altering its temperatures compared to the surrounding rural areas, that has detrimental effects on energy usage, expenditure for cooling, and health. The urban heat island of the city has been found partially responsible also for alterations of the climatological temperature time-series of specific Athens meteorological stations due to its impact on the temperatures and the temperatures trends recorded by some meteorological stations. On the other hand specific meteorological stations such as the National Garden station and Thiseio meteorological station are less affected or do not experience the urban heat island
Lokgonnti / Numbers 21 : 8 - ani Sorvesporan oso taka zobab dilo, Tum êk ujea-sarko sorôp kôr ani to eka khambear ubarun dovor. Konnak tôr sorôp chablo zalear, tacher nodor ghalear to vanchtolo. / and the LORD said to Moses: Make a seraph and mount it on a pole, and everyone who has been bitten will look at it and recover.
Anna (25 Genver 1477 – 9 Genver 1514) o Duges a Vreten Vyghan a-dhia 1488 bys 1514. Genys yn 1477, dug Francis II a Vreten Vyghan hag Margaret a Foix o hi. Yn 1490 y temmedhis hi Maximilian I a Estrych. Yn 1491 y temmedhis hi Charles VIII a Frynk. Yn 1499 y temmedhis hi Louis XII a Frynk.
The Caliphate tree'd tae control aw thir regions, an for this reason Bogha decidit tae repopulate the ceety o Chamkor in the Kura river wi Muslims. Chamkor, bein near Barda an Ganja, wis intendit tae act as a regional monitorin post. Bi order o the new Caliph in 862, the impreesoned princes wur tae be released an alloued tae return tae thair umwhile domains on the condeetion o becomin Muslim. (Housomeivver, thay aw abandoned Islam efter thair return.)
Todde adle munis muntale qui Sangolda sandlolo anic konnuch khobor ghenaslo ganv, ‘Sandlolo’ hea utrar thaun Sangolda nanv ailem mun oxem muntat. Todde muntat hea gavant chodd xe bangar corpi lok rautat and tanchem add nanv Sangodkar, tea passot Sangolda nanv ailam astelem.
Sulentic, Jack W., and William G. Tifft, "The Revised New General Catalogue of Nonstellar Astronomical Objects (RNGC)". Tucson, Arizona:University of Arizona Press, 1973. (4016,0)
Deuba Sugar Estate Company (Navua) Mill ek ganna ke pere waala mill rahaa, jiske 1884 me Fiji ke Taunovo Naddi ke east me Debua No. 1 Estate me banawa gais rahaa.
Bisby F.A., Roskov Y.R., Orrell T.M., Nicolson D., Paglinawan L.E., Bailly N., Kirk P.M., Bourgoin T., Baillargeon G., Ouvrard D. (red.) (2011). "Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life: 2011 Annual Checklist.". Species 2000: Reading, UK. Diakses pada 24 September 2012.
In 1988, Shealy worked as an organizer for Taxpayers for the Lottery. The group worked to bring the lottery to South Carolina, a cause championed by Shealy's father. Shealy ran campaigns for a plethora of politicians over the years and had an impressive track record in bringing dark horse candidates to victory.
Battle of the Giants Fiji ke ek football competition jiske har saal khela jaawe hae Fiji Football Association ke niche aur isme Fiji ke top district teams hissa lewe hae.
Please let us know if you have any questions, suggestions or comments about this new tool. For more information, visit this project hub and this help page. Keegan (WMF) (talk) 18:08, 4 октября 2013 (UTC)
Unong ed 2010 Census, say papulasyon to et 14,352 totoo. Walay kabaleg tan sukat to ya 98.62 sq. km. Sikato et walad alenleneg distrito. Say zip code to et 6615.
Ephezkarank / Ephesians 6 : 1 – 3 - Bhurgeamnô, tumi-i Somiachea ekvottant asat, tôr tumchea avoi-bapaichem aikat: oxem korop sarkem. Bhasavnni lailli poili adnia hi: Tujea avoibapaik man di. Ani hi asa bhasavnni: oxem tuka borem zatolem ani lamb auk desant tuka melltolem. / children, obey your parents [in the Lord], for this is right. 2 “Honor your father and mother.” This is the first commandment with a promise, 3 “that it may go well with you and that you may have a long life on earth.
Bermuda (/bɜrˈmjuːdə/ "Ber-myu-dah"; official naam, the Bermudas nai to Somers Islands) ek British overseas territory, North Atlantic Ocean me hae. Ii des jaada kar ke ek barraa island aur 180chhotachhota island hae.
Turf Moor, ii England kay Burnley shehr, mae sthit ek football stadium hae. Ii Burnley Football Club ka home ground hae, ii ma 21,401 logo ke baithe ke jagah hae.
The natural radioisotope of calcium, calcium-48, makes up about 0.1874% of natural calcium, and, thus, natural calcium is weakly radioactive. Barium-130 makes up approximately 0.1062% of natural barium, and, thus, barium is weakly radioactive, as well.
Len Wiseman was attached to direct but he dropped out of the project; rumors then circulated that Brett Ratner would helm the film. As Ratner did not formally commit to the project, the identity of the director became unclear. The studio brought Jonathan Mostow in to rewrite, with an option to direct. In addition, Gerard Butler bowed out of his role, claiming "creative differences". Allan Loeb wrote a script for the New Line Cinema project. Breck Eisner was then announced as the director of the remake, which was said to have scrapped the idea of a post-apocalyptic New York like the original, but rather would feature a New York that had been built after the bomb.
Hart died on March 16, 2008, following a heart attack at his home in Euless, Texas, after returning from an autograph session in Pennsylvania. On April 5, 2008, Peach State Pandemonium, an internet wrestling program, aired a two-hour tribute program in the memory of Hart. "Cowboy" Bill Watts, Jack Brisco, James Beard, Abdullah The Butcher, Michael "P.S." Hayes, Kevin Sullivan, George Steele, Skandor Akbar, and Jim Ross were among those who attended. Following his death, his autobiography, My Life In Wrestling...With A Little Help From My Friends, was released in 2009 but is now out of print.
Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoyevsky, (Novemba 11, 1821 – Febiweri 9, 1881) a ahn wehn wahn Roshan fikshan raita, eseis ahn filasifa uufa work dem inkluud buk laka Kraim an Ponishment ahn Di Breda dem Karamazav.
Farrington, D. P. (1978) The family backgrounds of aggressive youths. In Hersov, L., Berger, M. and Shaffer, D. (Eds.) Aggression and Antisocial Behaviour in Childhood and Adolescence. Oxford: Pergamon (pp. 73-93).
Enos Estaus Unius escomençó la idea de mestural la conservancia natural i la coltural. Una conferencia dela Casa Branca en 1965 called for a World Heritage Trust to preserve "the world's superb natural and scenic areas and historic sites for the present and the future of the entire world citizenry." The International Union for Conservation of Nature developed similar proposals in 1968, and they were presented in 1972 to the United Nations conference on Human Environment in Stockholm, Sweden.
The etymology of the scientific name is from Saxicola, "rock-dweller", from Latin saxum, a rock + incola, dwelling in; and tectes, onomatopoetic New Latin after the species' call, from the Réunion Creole name tec-tec.
Constitución Ceevic Centre: Culiacán's ceevic centre locatit in eastren ceety at the Malecón Viejo (Auld Watterfront), facin the Tamazula river. It haes the Culiacán Library, the Culiacán Zoo, the seicont Dancin Foontains in ceety whaur fowk go whan it is het, sports courts, a big run track an a Hellenic theater.
Christopher John Murray (ed.), Encyclopedia of the Romantic Era, 1760-1850, Routledge, 2013, p. 491: "Herder expressed a view fundamental to Romantic hermeneutics..."; Forster 2010, p. 9.
The Color Wheel ek 2011 mein bana English film hain. Yea film USA mein Alex Ross Perry ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Carlen Altman, Bob Byington, Kate Lyn Sheil, Anna Bak-Kvapil acting kiye the.
Bûten de Feriene Steaten is Sacajawea fral bekend wurden troch de Hollywood-films Night at the Museum, in aksje-komeedzje út 2006, en it ferfolch dêrop, Night at the Museum 2: Battle of the Smithsonian, út 2012, beide mei Ben Stiller yn 'e haadrol. Dy films geane oer it ferneamde Nasjonaal Natuerhistoarysk Museum yn Washington, D.C., in ûnderdiel fan it gruttere Smithsonian Ynstitút, dêr't jûns nei slutingstiid de waaksene bylden fan histoaryske figueren ta libben komme soene. Sacajawea waard yn dy beide films spile troch aktrise Mizuo Peck.
1859 - The current Cape Lookout, North Carolina, lighthouse is lighted for the first time. Its first-order Fresnel lens can be seen for 19 miles (30 kilometers).
(Inggris) Commentary on the Gospel of Saint Matthew An interpretation of the inner, practical meaning of the Gospel, oleh Swami Nirmalananda Giri.
The French Revolution reached Geneva in 1792, an in Februar 1794, the Republic gied itsel a new, revolutionary constitution that proclaimit the equality o aw citizens. Efter the execution o Maximilien Robbespierre in Julie o the same year, there wis a coonter-revolution, that gained the upper haund bi 1796. This promptit the [[Campaigns
The Vietnam era generally coincided with a time of protest against all things establishment. One manifestation of this was the ascendancy of Ultimate (also known as Ultimate Frisbee), which became popular around the country as an alternative to varsity sports. The game was conceived of by Columbia students in the late 1960s. It is said that the first organized game took place in 1968 in the lower Parker Avenue parking lot (aka the Student Parking Lot) between the staff of the school's student newspaper, The Columbian, and the Student Council. An annual CHS Ultimate Alumni game is played in the student parking lot on the night of Thanksgiving. The event has drawn former CHS Ultimate players from as far back as the original 1968 team to return to "The Lot" to play against the current incarnation of the team.
Kandal (Khmer: កណ្ដាល, "Central") is a province (khaet) o Cambodie. Its caipital is Ta Khmao toun (lit. Black grandfather). The province completely surroonds, but daes no include, the naitional caipital Phnom Penh. The Rithy Panh film Rice People wis filmit here.
Warminaka: Josephine Dillon (1924-1930), Maria "Ria" Franklin Printiss Lucas Langham (1931-1939), Carole Lombard (1939-1942), Sylvia Ashley (1949-1952), Kay Williams (1955-1960).
The open philosophy of most wikis, allowing anyone to edit content, does not ensure that every editor is well-meaning. Vandalism can be a major problem. In larger wiki sites, such as those run by the Wikimedia Foundation, vandalism can go unnoticed for a period of time. Wikis by their very nature are susceptible to intentional disruption, known as "trolling". Wikis tend to take a soft security approach to the problem of vandalism; making damage easy to undo rather than attempting to prevent damage. Larger wikis often employ sophisticated methods, such as bots that automatically identify and revert vandalism and JavaScript enhancements that show characters that have been added in each edit. In this way vandalism can be limited to just "minor vandalism" or "sneaky vandalism", where the characters added/eliminated are so few that bots do not identify them and users do not pay much attention to them.
For some time it was thought that the number of neutrinos produced by the nuclear reactions in the Sun was only one third of the number predicted by theory, a result that was termed the solar neutrino problem. Several neutrino observatories were created including the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory to try and measure the amount of neutrinos given off by the Sun. From these observatories and experiments it was recently found that neutrinos had rest mass, and could therefore transform into harder-to-detect varieties of neutrinos while en route from the Sun to Earth; thus measurement and theory were reconciled.
Platnick, N. I. 2000. A relimitation and revision of the Australasian ground spider family Lamponidae (Araneae: Gnaphosoidea). Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist. 245: 1—330.
Steuer, Kenneth։ ‘Pursuit of an 'Unparalleled Opportunity' - The American YMCA and Prisoner of War Diplomacy among the Central Power Nations during World War I, 1914-1923’, Kalamazoo (Michigan), 2008.
John Hope Franklin "George Washington Williams: A Biography", Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1985; Reprint, Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 1998.
Wikidata has been in development for a few months now. It is now time for the roll-out of the first part of it on your Wikipedia. Phase 1 is the support for the management of language links. It is already being used on the Hungarian, Hebrew, Italian and English Wikipedias. The next step is to enable the extension on all other Wikipedias. We have currently planned this for March 6.
If a player kicks the ball out of play at their end of the field, the other team kicks the ball back into play from the corner (a corner kick);
Midia a mainaig kenni Geoffrey Chaucer iti Wikimedia Commons Dagiti inadaw a sasao a mainaig kenni Geoffrey Chaucer iti Wikiquote (iti Ingles)
imvula ngamaqabaza amanzi ehla evela emafini asesibhakabhakeni angaphezu kwe-0.5 mm ubukhulu bawo. amaqabaza amanzi amalungane-0.2mm ukuya kwi-0.45mm ubukhulu kuthiwa ziidrizzle. Imvula luhlobo lokuphefumla Rain is a kind of precipitation. Precipitation is any kind of water that falls from clouds in the sky, like rain, hail, sleet and snow. It is measured by a rain gauge. Rain is part of the water cycle.
In total, Leilek Destrict include 1 toun an 46 veelages in 9 rural communities (aiyl okmotus). The rural communities an settlements in the Leilek Destrict are :
4000 Years of Algebra, lecture by Robin Wilson, at Gresham College, October 17, 2007 (available for MP3 and MP4 download, as well as a text file).
Ta ennym mooar er ram Danvargee 'sy theihll cultooragh, lheid as y skeeandagh Ole Rømer, y fallsoonagh Søren Kierkegaard, y screeudeyr Hans Christian Andersen, y fishigagh Niels Bohr, as Lars Ulrich ass Metallica.
Breathing ek 2011 mein bana German, English film hain. Yea film Austria mein Karl Markovics ke direction mein bana tha. Yea film mein Thomas Schubert, Karin Lischka, Georg Friedrich, Gerhard Liebmann acting kiye the.
EXP-IM 96 - Ragnar Bjarnason - Peppermint twist//twistin´at the bop//You must have been a beautiful baby.Helena Eyjólfsdóttir-The twistin´postman//Twist her//Everybodys twistin´down in Mexico - 1962
Didier Michelot and Leda Maria Melendez-Howell 2003 Amanita muscaria: chemistry, biology, toxicology, and ethnomycology Mycological Research, 107, 131-146
Each of these power quality problems has a different cause. Some problems are a result of the shared infrastructure. For example, a fault on the network may cause a dip that will affect some customers; the higher the level of the fault, the greater the number affected. A problem on one customer’s site may cause a transient that affects all other customers on the same subsystem. Problems, such as harmonics, arise within the customer’s own installation and may propagate onto the network and affect other customers. Harmonic problems can be dealt with by a combination of good design practice and well proven reduction equipment.
The amount of body fat rapidly increases. Lungs are not fully mature. Thalamic brain connections, which mediate sensory input, form. Bones are fully developed, but are still soft and pliable. Iron, calcium, and phosphorus become more abundant. Fingernails reach the end of the fingertips. The lanugo begins to disappear, until it is gone except on the upper arms and shoulders. Small breast buds are present on both sexes. Head hair becomes coarse and thicker. Birth is imminent and occurs around the 40th week. The fetus is considered full-term between weeks 35 and 40, which means that the fetus is considered sufficiently developed for life outside the uterus. It may be 48 to 53 cm (19 to 21 inches) in length, when born. Control of movement is limited at birth, and purposeful voluntary movements develop all the way until puberty.
For the 2002 season Westwood One chose veteran broadcaster Marv Albert, who had last called NFL games for NBC in 1997 and was best known for his NBA broadcasting for NBC, TNT, and (at the time) the New York Knicks. Esiason stayed on to be his color commentator. Since Esiason also joined The NFL Today broadcast team for the 2002 season and CBS (at the time) traveled to the site of the AFC Championship Game, Albert and Esiason became the exclusive voices of the game. To accomplish this Esiason would call the end of each half with a wireless microphone so he could save time to go to the field level set CBS used for these games. Esiason has also done this in years CBS has carried the Super Bowl, but has not done this for the AFC Championship game since the 2005 game in Denver as CBS has not traveled to the AFC Championship since.
Magnesium and calcium are very common in the earth's crust, with calcium the fifth-most-abundant element, and magnesium the eighth. None of the alkaline earth metals are found in their elemental state, but magnesium and calcium are found in many rocks and minerals: magnesium in carnallite, magnesite, and dolomite; and calcium in chalk, limestone, gypsum, and anhydrite.
Varanasi is home to the Banaras Hindu University. Residents mainly speak Kashika Bhojpuri, which is closely related to the Hindi language. People often refer to Varanasi as "the city of temples", "the holy city of India", "the religious capital of India", "the city of lights", "the city of learning" and the "culture capital of India". Atiu king Varanasi ing Banaras Hindu University. Ing amanung gagamitan da reng tau ya pin ing Kashika Bhojpuri, metung a lenguahing malapit king amanung Hindi. Maralas deng ausang "the city of temples" (lakanbalen da reng templu), "the holy city of India" (banal a lakanbalen ning India), "the religious capital of India" (tungku nang panrelihiun ning India), "the city of lights" (lakanbalen da reng sulu), "the city of learning" (lakanbalen ning beluan) ampong "culture capital of India" (tungkung pangcultura ning India) ing Varanasi.
In his youth he moved to Bernalda in the province of Matera. He begun his military career on October 22, 1967 and began attending courses at the Military Academy in Modena and studied at the Carabinieri School in Rome, graduating in Law. He was editor-in-chief of Il Carabiniere, the monthly magazine published by the Arms of Carabinieri.
The pair's mission was: "to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful." With a US$1-million loan from friends and family, the inaugural team eventually moved into a Mountain View office by the start of 2000. In 1999, Page experimented with smaller sized server units so that Google could fit more into each square meter of the third-party warehouses that the company rented to store their servers, which eventually led to a search engine that ran much faster than Google's competitors at the time.
(2) an artificial market using personal vouchers, which ensures freedom of choice but avoids the adverse effects of real markets. Although some have called this system "a form of money based on the labour theory of value", it is not a money model since vouchers cannot be used as a general medium of exchange and store of wealth.
Coonty Sligo (Erse: Contae Shligigh‎) is ane o the twenty-sax coonties o the Republic o Ireland an ane o the thirty-twa coonties o Ireland. It is located in the province o Connacht. It wis named efter the toun o Sligo (Erse: Sligeach‎) which is the anglization o the Erse Sligeach meanin Place o the Shells. The population o the coonty is 60,894 according to the 2006 census. Sligo is the 22nt lairgest o Ireland's 32 coonties in area an 25t lairgest in terms o population. It is the fowert lairgest o Connacht's 5 coonties in size an third lairgest in terms o population.
A-barth an bennsita Dhimashq, an sitys poesek a Syri yw Haleb, Latakya, Homs ha Hama. Brassa niver an dus a drig yn Howlsedhes an wlas ryb an arvor, poken ryb Dhowr Ewfratys y'n Borlewen.
Obradović, Dositej. The Life and Adventures of Dimitrije Obradović. University of California Publications in Modern Philology 39. Berkeley; Los Angeles, 1953.
Born in Glesga an a anerly bairn, her faimily muivit tae Kirn athort the watter in Argyll when she wis vera young, tae run a smaw hotel, efter her faither haed suffered a hert attack. As a bairn she suffered an attack o tuberculosis an uised a wheelchair for a time, which kindled a dream o becomin a actress. At the age o 17 she wan a place tae RADA, but insteid trained in Glesga, nearer tae her faimily.
New World Marsupial Specialist Group 1996.Micoureus regina In: IUCN 2006. 2006 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Downloaded on 19 January 2007.
Use a parser function like {{#property:p159}} in the wiki text of the article on Wikimedia Foundation. This will return “San Francisco” as that is the headquarter location of the non-profit.
Military Brat (or simply Brat) refers to a child with at least one parent who served full-time in the armed forces. It implies that such an upbringing is different in important ways from that experienced by those in the community at large. The term brat, when used in this context, is neither subjective nor derogatory.
In September 2013, Page launched the independent Calico initiative, a R&D project in the field of biotechnology. Google announced that Calico seeks to innovate and make improvements in the field of human health, and appointed Art Levinson, chairman of Apple's board and former CEO of Genentech, to be the new division's CEO. Page's official statement read: "Illness and aging affect all our families. With some longer term, moonshot thinking around healthcare and biotechnology, I believe we can improve millions of lives."
Wojtan, Linda S. Free Resources for Teaching about Japan. Bloomington, IN: Midwest Program for Teaching about Japan, Indiana University, 1986. ED 270 3891.
Bäck, Henry/Heinelt, Hubert/Magnier, Annick (Hrsg.): The European Mayor. Political Leaders in the Changing Context of Local Democracy. VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden 2006.
Ashanti (àbísọ Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas; October 13, 1980) ni akọrin-olùkọ̀wéorin, atọ́kùn àwo-orin, àti òṣeré ará Amẹ́ríkà. Ní ìbẹ̀rẹ̀ ẹ̀wádún 2000 ló dìde bíi olórin. Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, which featured the hit song "Foolish", and sold over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002. The album set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening week sales for a new female artist, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill. In the same week, she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with "Foolish", and "What's Luv?" (with Fat Joe). Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, "Foolish," "What's Luv?" and "Always on Time", on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week, being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles. In 2003, the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R&B album. As of 2012, Ashanti has sold over 30 million records worldwide. Ashanti ended the decade (2000–09) as the third top new R&B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé. She also ended the decade at number 38 on the Top Artist of the Decade list. She ranked #17, with Foolish selling more than 7.4 million copies in the U.S.Àdàkọ:Citation needed. Ashanti has an estimated net worth of $40 million dollars [USD].
Most Reverend Angel N. Lagdameo, D.D., Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Jaro and former President of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines - Lucban
The Progress of Siam has been such of late years that i think the time has arrived when this goverment may look forward to more control over its own affairs and to less interference from without. To obtain such control is, my opinion well worth sacrificeof territory over which the Goverment does not excercise effective control and about which questions of difficulty may arise. ''In pursuance, therefore, of such policy of which the late Treaty with France is an example, I should be willing to propose to the Siamese Government the cession to Great Britain of the states of Kelantan, Trengganu, and Kedah, provided that the British Government would be willing to make the following concessions 1. The abrogation of the Secret Agreement of 1897; 2. The giving up of exterritoriality, at least to the extent which has been yield by France by the Treaty of the 23rd March this year.'
Columbia High School has a series of clubs. The Columbian is a club where students write a newspaper for students and staff of Columbia High School that includes topics from in the school itself, but also includes current events from around the world. The paper was recognized by the American Scholastic Press Association in 2014-15 with first place in its Scholastic Newspaper Awards.
A young Greek girl, Fotini Papaleonidopoulou, lit a symbolic lantern with the Olympic Flame and passed it on to other children before "extinguishing" the flame in the cauldron by blowing a puff of air. The ceremony ended with a variety of musical performances by Greek singers, including George Dalaras, Haris Alexiou, Anna Vissi, Sakis Rouvas, Eleftheria Arvanitaki, Alkistis Protopsalti, Antonis Remos, Mixalis Xatzigiannis, Marinella and Dimitra Galani, as thousands of athletes carried out symbolic displays on the stadium floor.
Fotopoulos describes Inclusive Democracy as "a new conception of democracy, which, using as a starting point the classical definition of it, expresses democracy in terms of direct political democracy, economic democracy (beyond the confines of the market economy and state planning), as well as democracy in the social realm and ecological democracy. In short, inclusive democracy is a form of social organisation which re-integrates society with economy, polity and nature. The concept of inclusive democracy is derived from a synthesis of two major historical traditions, the classical democratic and the socialist, although it also encompasses radical green, feminist, and liberation movements in the South".
The Chicago Bears and Chicago Cardinals only did home telecasts for their vast network. So if the Bears played the Colts in Baltimore or the Cardinals visited Forbes Field to play the Steelers in these years, it was likely that the games were not televised by CBS (but from 1959 to 1961, might be shown by NBC).
Juanv / John 1 : 7–9 - Tachê vorvim soglleamnim, bhavarth dhôrchê khatir, uzvadda vixim govaiki, diunk mhonn, to govai koso ailo. 8 To apunnuch uzvadd nhoi aslo, punn Uzvadda vixim govaiki, diunk to ail’lo. 9 Khoro Uzvadd mhollear Sôbd: sonvsarant ietolea somest mon’xank, Toch uzvadd dita: / He came for testimony, to testify to the light, so that all might believe through him. 8 He was not the light, but came to testify to the light. 9 The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world.
The multistakeholder approach were highlighted by many speakers and panelists during the Opening Session, including the message from the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, which was read by the UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs, M. Sha Zukang.
The Constitution of Medina (622 AD; Arabia) instituted a number of rights and responsibilities for the Muslim, Jewish and pagan communities of Medina, establishing religious freedoms, the security of women, a system for granting protection of individuals, and a judicial system.
Sant Climent de Llobregat is a municipality in the comarca o Baix Llobregat, Barcelona Province, Catalonie, Spain. It is connectit bi road wi Viladecans an Sant Boi de Llobregat.
The Board of Trustees is the decision-making body that is ultimately responsible for the long term sustainability of the Foundation, so we value wide input into its selection. There are three positions being filled. More information about this role can be found at the board elections page.
During World Class' golden era, Hart was also a manager in the Georgia and Mid-Atlantic regions of the NWA; joining these two areas exclusively in 1983 shortly after the start of the Freebirds-Von Erichs feud, when he left World Class due to a pay dispute. Hart returned to Texas in the summer of 1984 and following a short hiatus in 1986; stayed with the federation until 1988. Hart was also a promoter and manager in San Antonio for Texas All-Star Wrestling, the successor of Joe Blanchard's Southwest Championship Wrestling (SCW) group. He also worked for the ICW, first as the heel manager of Bruiser Brody, Kevin Sullivan and Mark Lewin. During one storyline, Hart had a falling out with Sullivan, after which Lewin attacked Hart with a sleeper hold.
Jonas Collin, jon ki Anderson ke ek chance encounter me mila, uske like karis aur uske ek grammar school me parrhe ke khatir bhejis. Andersen ii time talk aapan pahila kahani, The Ghost at Palnatoke's Grave, likh diis rahaa. Uu 1827 talak Elsinore me school parrhis.
Omar Sharif (n. Michel Demitri Chalhoub, 1932 til 2015) esis Egiptiana cinem-aktoro. Lua maxim konocita filmi esas "Lawrence de Arabia" (Lawrence of Arabia, 1962), "Doktoro Zhivago" (Doctor Zhivago, 1965) e "Jokoza Puerino" (Funny Girl, 1968).
est
swe
mai
oci
tha
orm
lim
guj
pnb
zea
krc
hat
pcd
tam
vie
pan
ckb
fur
ton
eus
map-bms
glk
map-bms
nld
bod
jpn
arg
srd
ext
sin
che
pag
tur
als
koi
srd
krc
lat
urd
tat
jpn
bxr
bod
ind
dan
por
fra
orm
pag
ori
nob
jbo
amh
khm
hbs
slv
tet
kor
rup
ast
bul
tha
gla
ton
msa
crh
lug
bre
mon
nep
ibo
est
jbo
por
cdo
por
asm
grn
hin
mar
lin
ile
ile
lmo
mya
lin
tam
lin
csb
tyv
gle
nan
ibo
krc
scn
be-tarask
cor
fao
mlg
yid
sme
spa
bul
kbd
udm
isl
fra
fra
mar
ksh
tat
san
hat
crh
aze
est
kor
ksh
koi
dan
nap
dsb
nob
isl
isl
vie
tat
pam
cym
srp
glk
stq
tel
swa
vls
mar
slv
bel
lad
ina
fao
vls
ava
lao
min
orm
ita
glk
nds-nl
eus
ina
ile
srd
fra
mon
oss
rup
pus
tet
fin
snd
nld
swa
fas
fra
glk
cbk
cat
guj
mhr
roa-tara
frp
ron
new
fao
oci
lin
new
pcd
srp
bar
ava
ltg
lav
ces
ltg
nso
map-bms
min
ext
rus
dan
ace
mdf
roa-tara
oss
jpn
vep
sgs
mar
uig
nso
lit
kbd
scn
frp
sqi
ind
slk
ast
lat
ita
nan
csb
snd
scn
orm
sco
ukr
mri
lat
ina
lit
hrv
frp
san
ast
san
be-tarask
vol
nso
new
vie
eng
glv
udm
als
fra
fur
fur
lit
dsb
mdf
ext
lit
jav
tcy
fin
yid
min
asm
cor
ori
aze
hif
sna
pan
nap
lao
sco
por
ile
war
mya
eng
tcy
khm
ces
mlt
urd
egl
tsn
ibo
sco
lez
cor
lat
min
ind
bre
lit
nep
ind
hak
ile
kom
que
oss
arg
jpn
ara
slk
fry
nso
pus
dty
mal
bxr
mri
eus
kbd
hak
gag
ind
gla
cor
afr
vep
swe
khm
map-bms
pap
kin
bel
ang
new
asm
kaz
be-tarask
nld
bjn
vol
sqi
nap
asm
rus
hye
olo
sco
oss
mya
hif
xmf
ava
nld
kom
ara
dty
pnb
ile
gag
ara
tur
urd
mai
pnb
gle
hat
pnb
bcl
fur
nap
bxr
snd
grn
fra
bar
pdc
gla
ang
stq
cor
hif
san
lin
zea
hsb
srn
vol
orm
lao
hak
ksh
nap
cym
hbs
sco
mon
be-tarask
kom
bxr
afr
por
kat
tgl
grn
ckb
khm
nno
glg
swa
roh
mlt
cym
pdc
koi
gla
sco
als
egl
srp
kan
vie
bul
lrc
sqi
hak
csb
gle
kom
tet
lao
mai
krc
tyv
guj
div
fur
kin
tel
myv
srd
por
ava
nds-nl
snd
bod
ext
nep
olo
mon
swa
koi
fur
mlt
cos
ind
rup
lav
nap
asm
krc
orm
roh
cdo
tsn
vie
krc
ind
zea
tel
frp
tam
sna
vep
gle
hun
nrm
vls
ita
bjn
san
udm
slv
xmf
swe
mri
fas
mdf
vie
rus
tsn
pfl
koi
fry
pan
grn
jbo
lrc
tha
wln
kor
lmo
mar
lav
lez
sgs
bho
bcl
ltg
tyv
urd
sme
nep
tha
sqi
ina
cos
por
epo
nno
stq
ara
ukr
vol
tam
pag
snd
stq
ori
krc
afr
cdo
ckb
deu
che
grn
hat
lmo
ltg
mlt
yid
pdc
roh
pdc
nso
cat
mlg
be-tarask
lez
nav
glg
gla
gle
sco
dsb
kaz
hat
ace
sco
isl
hak
hun
srp
jbo
frp
cdo
roh
ton
fry
pus
glg
mai
uig
war
crh
swa
che
mwl
rup
urd
afr
bar
aze
olo
ukr
pus
pfl
div
min
pan
mwl
pam
lao
deu
lav
nob
ibo
mri
san
ext
gle
bxr
vol
sme
hbs
nav
isl
kom
eng
glk
hak
fry
mlg
ton
grn
kom
ces
fao
rus
mar
nap
fas
roa-tara
frp
lad
cym
cdo
lav
pol
wln
rue
tat
lad
ori
als
pam
hye
sme
mwl
mhr
bar
stq
glg
jpn
vep
lmo
gla
por
kan
cbk
tel
vie
scn
ibo
nav
hin
wln
lim
san
hbs
lrc
vep
fas
kor
uig
ava
lug
nds
nno
hak
frp
wln
hrv
aym
tat
epo
lrc
swe
pan
bre
als
cos
srd
ceb
ind
bre
lat
lug
zea
epo
xho
lrc
cat
vls
snd
bul
hun
fra
scn
olo
kbd
nso
tgl
sme
dsb
snd
hif
rup
slv
tsn
cos
crh
pdc
asm
lat
pnb
xho
pan
bxr
aze
bul
pus
hak
pnb
kin
bcl
map-bms
eng
est
glv
ind
lit
gla
cym
kaz
sin
mwl
ori
tel
vep
grn
mlt
jbo
mwl
hye
tam
kaz
gle
lug
als
krc
dty
ace
mhr
vol
yid
stq
lug
san
oci
tam
nav
ton
bho
msa
crh
bre
kaz
lat
san
nds-nl
cym
rup
khm
nap
sqi
sco
lat
srp
bpy
bul
swa
gla
eus
eng
tyv
hsb
pol
kbd
div
new
cdo
lmo
ace
pus
lez
koi
bod
bjn
jbo
nso
kor
cym
nno
jpn
rus
ita
ell
kbd
lug
tet
pan
glv
pag
bpy
nrm
bod
tam
sqi
mlg
bxr
fas
glg
mai
pol
kbd
tha
orm
cym
udm
ukr
nso
kat
hat
khm
lad
tet
asm
zea
mdf
srp
mlt
war
kbd
nso
bpy
scn
vol
afr
zea
que
udm
cbk
lav
ces
ces
afr
zea
tur
vls
als
pnb
pam
pap
mhr
san
be-tarask
cdo
tcy
est
srn
arg
cat
lin
eng
ceb
grn
vol
nso
epo
xho
map-bms
dan
swe
min
mlt
epo
mdf
frp
tgl
sgs
pfl
mhr
sgs
uig
vls
jpn
lez
lad
gle
pcd
krc
vol
aze
uig
yid
che
tha
oci
hye
olo
nav
nno
cdo
epo
kat
ace
epo
xmf
nds
que
fra
tel
ara
nrm
bjn
pdc
bre
ile
ron
cos
oss
spa
guj
xmf
gla
rup
ara
eus
gle
frp
gla
aze
lug
bho
myv
epo
mar
kor
fin
nso
snd
tha
vol
udm
bar
ext
ang
csb
glg
csb
hun
pcd
ara
bho
aym
ava
pfl
ell
pfl
sme
est
pus
stq
rup
xmf
jpn
hye
mwl
tur
nap
nds-nl
mya
csb
est
kom
nob
xho
ace
rus
mkd
bjn
mri
ksh
kaz
fin
rup
pam
nno
eng
sme
bho
stq
cat
bcl
koi
frp
mal
crh
pfl
gag
be-tarask
fur
csb
gle
cbk
bcl
kan
bel
tha
ast
urd
srd
bho
ceb
war
bpy
egl
mar
che
mlg
rus
hsb
dsb
cdo
bel
bul
dty
deu
ibo
aze
hsb
afr
lad
csb
mlt
pcd
ukr
mkd
amh
lim
pdc
isl
vol
glv
mya
map-bms
vol
wln
yid
bxr
rus
gle
frp
bpy
scn
kbd
kat
hbs
vol
hin
mar
kan
asm
oss
scn
mon
snd
kor
amh
nso
kat
ltg
kbd
srd
gle
egl
bre
rup
fas
cor
bar
lim
fur
swe
ibo
mlg
nan
guj
vol
lrc
pnb
urd
mri
jav
mon
guj
arg
mai
ext
dty
ina
oci
ori
ori
rus
oci
ibo
lat
scn
pfl
fur
xho
bpy
cbk
pcd
lat
pol
mhr
lez
roh
kor
nav
tat
nds
min
mlt
fry
cor
ava
ita
cym
eus
cym
bjn
sin
mai
eus
mdf
tam
mai
nds
bel
deu
roa-tara
san
mlt
msa
bxr
sna
cos
snd
mai
lin
tur
lao
amh
hrv
swe
mon
swa
mai
udm
bjn
cbk
cos
hrv
roa-tara
ceb
hin
vls
nav
hin
nds-nl
wln
als
bcl
cos
mdf
nso
aze
tat
srp
tur
aze
tel
hin
kaz
cos
sco
jbo
sqi
min
eus
tha
ace
div
hin
mal
mhr
crh
bre
fin
sqi
tet
ton
mhr
ina
pfl
slk
tur
ton
bre
hak
sqi
oss
glg
map-bms
pfl
csb
stq
lug
kom
dty
koi
mya
new
lim
pfl
pnb
cym
egl
asm
cos
ckb
mon
por
hrv
cat
war
div
xmf
kbd
sin
lav
swa
glk
tur
urd
lrc
che
nds
mkd
aym
cdo
hbs
eng
bul
pam
nds
ckb
vep
nan
glv
hsb
mya
ceb
aym
krc
srp
koi
ace
eng
sqi
ile
hsb
fra
pol
che
ltg
srd
sna
dsb
kbd
lug
gla
eng
jbo
glk
swa
isl
jav
hat
pan
kom
sco
bho
tet
kbd
slk
olo
map-bms
xmf
tet
bxr
ckb
srd
jav
cbk
sgs
pdc
ces
dsb
hrv
vls
krc
pdc
bar
kom
krc
hif
bod
tgl
mlg
cym
tha
ava
khm
orm
hye
krc
pnb
tat
uig
fin
bre
aym
slk
tcy
kbd
gla
nap
hbs
kor
jpn
lit
epo
que
mal
tyv
vls
pnb
guj
slk
krc
ori
kin
div
roh
san
csb
cdo
nav
srp
spa
egl
gle
nep
ita
dsb
eng
nno
dan
bpy
be-tarask
sqi
min
ibo
deu
cos
lao
lug
tsn
hak
slk
lim
cbk
dan
xho
kom
kom
tur
tcy
ckb
san
cym
lin
myv
glv
ile
san
vol
mlt
srp
ile
ltg
nno
tsn
mdf
hat
mai
aym
roa-tara
mya
tgl
gle
ell
por
gle
ita
div
nds-nl
hif
eus
lrc
mon
che
bre
kan
yid
pan
tgl
ind
lin
mon
nso
ukr
ibo
eng
guj
lug
tet
lim
lez
cos
snd
pcd
tet
nav
hif
isl
yid
bre
lmo
tcy
lim
roa-tara
hat
bel
lug
cor
fra
san
orm
zea
bul
ava
bar
deu
tha
nav
jpn
swa
roh
gag
myv
srd
tam
ina
nds
pol
sco
vep
vep
sgs
kor
tsn
srd
pol
nld
xmf
ces
que
ext
be-tarask
tat
bcl
pap
dty
swe
yid
pag
ast
ori
sco
jbo
fas
fin
srp
ukr
guj
dsb
ces
nan
cos
ile
war
ina
kan
slv
bul
lug
bel
krc
bxr
gla
ava
sme
mdf
nds
cbk
ind
new
tel
ava
dan
ckb
que
uig
myv
bxr
deu
fry
sin
ton
ava
nld
grn
est
sco
fin
tur
ast
ava
nob
grn
ceb
bcl
por
est
mar
fry
mdf
glg
kat
tel
roa-tara
cos
mai
oci
rup
gle
nap
dan
min
ibo
ara
vep
aze
frp
div
jbo
ukr
afr
cor
tur
san
stq
ceb
glk
sme
pcd
jbo
mya
srp
fra
uig
tyv
pus
hat
jbo
war
que
aym
roa-tara
mdf
tat
urd
srn
cym
scn
nso
csb
glv
be-tarask
be-tarask
orm
egl
sin
bho
div
kbd
tha
mya
pag
ibo
srp
ita
fur
ast
dsb
jbo
ron
kom
amh
sin
kan
myv
lad
nap
gla
als
pag
uig
mri
slk
tet
rus
pfl
cdo
mri
min
dsb
bcl
grn
msa
fra
nso
uig
sme
xmf
nno
lin
sin
vie
kan
tat
pag
pdc
spa
stq
epo
mhr
koi
nds
nap
pol
lit
bul
min
lrc
deu
asm
mya
pan
cat
bar
bpy
mkd
nrm
kan
tsn
be-tarask
mlg
bod
arg
ukr
koi
scn
oci
nrm
che
mwl
hrv
por
pnb
frp
deu
fas
fas
kbd
epo
gla
cor
fin
epo
spa
aym
tat
ang
msa
lim
myv
lin
vep
gle
fin
deu
jav
ron
ile
glk
grn
guj
frp
als
rup
lrc
udm
san
kat
be-tarask
ces
ace
hat
bho
map-bms
jpn
msa
sin
slk
lin
pcd
pag
gla
xmf
nds-nl
dsb
kbd
gla
xho
uig
lit
nep
kat
ile
tha
ava
koi
mai
rup
wln
tur
mhr
dsb
mlg
bcl
nds
jbo
kbd
ava
als
epo
vie
pcd
bjn
mal
tur
mon
uig
lez
rus
swe
dsb
hat
nds-nl
aze
hif
fao
als
mal
zea
tsn
swe
srd
lin
srp
rup
rup
amh
eus
oss
als
vie
nav
fao
deu
mya
nob
pnb
por
xmf
nso
lim
nso
ori
hat
mlt
nld
nob
ind
hun
sco
dan
mlt
hin
nld
cat
glk
swe
sqi
nav
hrv
nep
ces
hif
war
isl
eus
srd
ell
lin
pol
nds-nl
ang
ast
pam
aze
glk
lrc
aze
hif
tgl
pus
cos
krc
mlg
amh
ang
egl
khm
est
ibo
aze
ind
bjn
que
bul
fur
lmo
kor
jpn
ori
new
cym
kbd
csb
nrm
ltg
fin
vie
slv
rup
mya
swa
mwl
san
nrm
cdo
pfl
lit
srn
mal
tat
udm
war
que
pus
grn
ukr
new
eus
aym
pol
lat
tat
tur
lmo
nav
pag
myv
ava
frp
glg
ukr
gla
slk
lav
kin
mlg
cos
bjn
roh
ell
nav
xho
kan
ibo
mal
khm
sco
srn
kan
bar
mhr
fur
bel
ina
gag
por
uig
fas
que
msa
pus
xho
ina
bho
hin
mon
fao
msa
lrc
cat
bre
lat
ang
nld
tel
nep
hin
nds-nl
rus
rus
sgs
tat
arg
ace
roa-tara
zea
lug
tat
ksh
pdc
kbd
crh
hat
nso
srd
que
lin
ces
zea
rup
ron
be-tarask
mdf
min
cat
mlg
sin
ara
ukr
fur
als
mon
ina
kan
stq
cos
gla
eng
lin
swa
nob
xho
bjn
kin
nep
ita
rue
bul
bjn
eus
tgl
srp
msa
bar
udm
pfl
csb
tsn
mlg
lat
vls
pdc
kan
bul
ind
nds
fur
dan
bul
fao
rus
pam
bul
dty
ukr
lrc
lmo
asm
pan
rup
tyv
hsb
bjn
jbo
kin
aym
egl
lad
hbs
nds
grn
lat
eng
tgl
swe
new
crh
aze
msa
eng
ext
koi
afr
ton
gla
sna
pol
xho
pus
war
csb
tam
cbk
ava
hif
ceb
hin
xho
mai
krc
kaz
mlg
bho
sin
hun
ton
nan
est
lat
wln
rus
stq
que
zea
cbk
oss
hif
gag
kat
ind
jbo
urd
mar
xmf
tet
nap
uig
sgs
roa-tara
jpn
hin
vie
nso
krc
grn
lad
cat
ang
pus
mar
pan
tyv
gla
lez
sme
bre
swa
urd
tyv
cos
tcy
egl
san
vep
yid
lad
sqi
mal
ckb
guj
bel
hun
ckb
gag
cos
slk
hye
kin
bre
tcy
cos
glk
pcd
orm
mlg
ina
cos
pdc
msa
dsb
cym
ava
swe
srp
vol
hye
ltg
que
nso
lao
map-bms
myv
nld
hat
mlg
ckb
kat
nrm
egl
lat
fas
tur
nso
oss
pnb
afr
hun
jpn
nan
aym
xho
ell
frp
cbk
cdo
kom
pnb
lad
ori
pag
sqi
slk
pfl
msa
sna
nds-nl
fao
fin
mar
pus
be-tarask
mya
nav
mal
pus
tat
nrm
roh
mal
ind
bre
frp
oss
kor
bxr
msa
als
zea
crh
por
frp
deu
cat
nrm
lmo
sco
ckb
ksh
asm
hrv
tsn
sna
ibo
slk
pnb
lit
tet
cat
pan
mlg
kom
srn
ile
nob
vls
pcd
stq
san
spa
urd
bod
aym
ita
oss
scn
ang
xho
mon
nep
eng
rus
lez
ton
nep
pnb
tha
afr
cbk
min
fry
lao
nso
ori
mya
olo
crh
bpy
vie
pnb
grn
sqi
fas
slk
lmo
tur
rup
bre
slv
khm
grn
ara
rup
grn
mdf
grn
bho
mlt
ava
urd
bjn
tyv
lav
cdo
lat
ceb
tyv
ori
grn
est
orm
grn
mal
pdc
be-tarask
srn
glk
bcl
war
nds-nl
roa-tara
lav
roh
urd
asm
pus
frp
ile
uig
kat
vol
epo
nep
mkd
glg
scn
fur
orm
gag
egl
pan
kan
kaz
lat
gla
bul
tha
tsn
myv
sqi
slv
ina
hif
tha
sgs
nso
ang
mal
sqi
ang
uig
eng
nno
bre
srp
bpy
lav
frp
slk
kan
ron
new
lao
oci
bho
isl
cym
new
eus
hrv
cor
ceb
est
nav
lim
new
gla
aze
fry
khm
nso
guj
lrc
min
pfl
ita
oci
fao
hak
guj
xho
kbd
roh
que
lin
lad
ibo
kbd
tur
guj
pfl
epo
lim
stq
swe
cbk
sin
vls
lit
aze
bul
spa
yid
als
gla
tcy
tet
ace
egl
nan
rus
ksh
aym
hbs
vol
che
cor
spa
lad
tyv
mar
mhr
isl
rus
map-bms
als
gla
arg
aym
khm
tcy
hat
ina
vep
mhr
tyv
fry
guj
mya
nno
kor
mwl
sin
epo
arg
hbs
mdf
amh
deu
aze
pfl
lao
nso
ita
frp
lav
zea
nep
kom
csb
xmf
lug
lin
ara
lez
rup
kbd
pam
tat
mri
jbo
pap
stq
grn
new
ltg
slk
nap
pfl
kin
guj
pol
hsb
swa
cos
hsb
hye
mkd
tcy
san
pnb
est
khm
afr
tur
pap
nep
kan
tcy
kat
pol
srd
frp
sqi
mon
sin
kan
frp
rus
hat
urd
vol
glg
fin
kbd
kat
tat
mar
lez
tcy
mwl
che
scn
pfl
oci
new
csb
nan
ace
hak
nap
aym
est
guj
cos
udm
est
lug
fao
pap
udm
fao
hun
afr
aym
sna
mlg
bre
be-tarask
sco
hak
tsn
cor
glg
ita
por
est
dty
olo
por
mar
jpn
cor
min
tel
amh
nob
kaz
ile
hye
afr
ces
orm
ind
bel
por
ltg
lao
mlt
urd
roa-tara
tet
sqi
myv
nan
mlt
por
lav
swa
xmf
asm
glv
hak
hin
glv
ext
rue
lrc
est
ceb
ukr
pam
gle
mai
vol
nds-nl
amh
nap
map-bms
nso
hin
mri
nap
hye
que
pfl
arg
nso
pdc
vie
tcy
kbd
map-bms
ksh
san
gle
ibo
kor
mlt
aze
nan
srn
pfl
ces
hin
rus
khm
cdo
pap
nds
arg
scn
slk
lim
pcd
nav
kan
tha
hrv
div
tat
gle
san
ceb
mhr
lao
lao
nap
roa-tara
asm
swe
amh
aze
nap
afr
min
deu
lrc
snd
bxr
hin
nds-nl
hrv
pfl
tel
cor
mri
cym
war
kom
pdc
pol
kat
pag
bul
rup
jpn
lat
ori
mlg
ang
srn
ext
roh
kbd
egl
spa
srn
tet
lad
hye
lez
be-tarask
krc
fin
lad
hin
gle
rus
udm
ina
bod
mai
map-bms
bho
arg
xmf
srn
asm
bcl
vls
glv
jav
lat
kan
slv
cor
be-tarask
ron
oss
ori
ang
tcy
zea
fin
vep
lez
pdc
tur
krc
fin
hun
glv
cbk
hye
fur
eus
war
glg
ori
nan
arg
pag
jpn
stq
vol
sna
mri
pfl
lao
mkd
tha
ori
dsb
slk
hrv
bod
gag
khm
map-bms
est
ind
cos
srp
koi
xho
ton
fas
lrc
egl
mdf
csb
fin
jav
div
arg
tyv
xmf
vie
mal
kom
nso
spa
yid
srp
fas
ori
urd
isl
mya
rup
ceb
bjn
mhr
pfl
lit
mon
tgl
mon
bel
new
glv
dan
pfl
mwl
aze
ita
vep
pnb
map-bms
pnb
ell
scn
sco
als
bul
pam
bod
pol
ori
ceb
mya
nep
sco
srp
hak
nep
als
hak
fin
olo
ang
mlg
be-tarask
msa
fry
hbs
pcd
grn
lez
nds
lez
ckb
mwl
bcl
ori
cat
cdo
tam
ace
tgl
tyv
lez
bar
jbo
dsb
fas
eus
bod
fao
lez
nan
sgs
war
san
bel
hsb
ava
lav
fra
rus
sin
lmo
kor
jav
tcy
ukr
mhr
gla
tsn
mai
ara
pcd
ace
khm
oss
ibo
ces
tat
fao
bcl
sin
nap
rue
ceb
myv
aym
map-bms
mkd
ext
kom
pcd
dty
epo
aym
nso
amh
tur
ckb
gag
msa
glv
fra
sqi
amh
zea
mwl
nno
oci
tat
lrc
sqi
kom
swa
bcl
glk
lat
pfl
xho
lao
dan
rue
mhr
gla
pnb
pcd
zea
bul
frp
msa
cdo
ltg
ckb
mdf
cdo
khm
kat
mar
cbk
be-tarask
kat
gla
fra
swe
por
als
lrc
gag
mal
aze
mon
che
fas
fry
swe
tet
kan
roh
ceb
swa
jbo
egl
pol
min
sme
sgs
dan
vol
mya
kan
kbd
war
yid
pus
lat
eus
ita
snd
ell
gla
bjn
dty
urd
lao
ava
scn
eng
sco
srp
jpn
pcd
msa
kin
kat
kin
tsn
bod
tur
rue
kin
bod
pnb
urd
lat
deu
zea
hrv
fas
koi
tet
yid
pol
fry
nep
bcl
glg
lit
rus
cym
pus
srp
dty
hun
sin
glg
vie
dan
mya
nob
dsb
arg
nrm
rup
por
pap
eus
pdc
pan
vls
frp
slk
dsb
cos
srp
fin
che
cos
sme
lao
nrm
deu
isl
ast
glv
ara
nav
nap
ast
ibo
dan
asm
bre
ron
ckb
map-bms
afr
jpn
mar
lav
srn
fry
hat
guj
hun
bpy
egl
slv
yid
ita
fin
lit
lug
snd
div
deu
war
pan
nno
pol
grn
cat
hye
bxr
min
ext
mar
yid
kat
cat
nno
hsb
lmo
sme
oss
new
xho
mar
mkd
pam
nds-nl
swe
grn
wln
ext
ron
pol
snd
ace
bjn
mkd
zea
ext
nno
lav
srn
bcl
lug
zea
als
pcd
fry
olo
mhr
ind
lug
lez
fas
pus
oss
lit
nds
est
jav
hat
ita
hun
map-bms
hrv
glk
uig
kaz
fao
xho
tgl
myv
que
tcy
yid
ang
rus
nep
pfl
srd
nrm
ksh
fao
pam
fin
hun
nav
kom
min
ces
nob
nld
que
nld
div
kat
orm
dan
udm
nno
nds
por
fur
cbk
tel
gla
jbo
bod
hat
zea
por
pdc
nds
cat
mhr
hak
urd
mdf
mkd
scn
ces
koi
kbd
kat
bcl
fra
roh
nrm
ace
rus
bul
pag
mwl
tcy
ori
aze
scn
nds-nl
lit
cbk
aym
urd
ext
lad
pdc
lav
nno
frp
pap
tat
cor
ina
fin
egl
min
dty
tel
tel
nld
stq
rue
fin
olo
ast
cos
hsb
tur
nan
lrc
gle
bpy
lin
hun
nrm
roa-tara
nan
fao
bre
ile
ton
nap
oci
jpn
ceb
isl
new
ltg
nav
mon
lim
lmo
ell
deu
isl
pdc
bar
glv
ces
fas
vol
pap
bjn
sgs
ile
mar
crh
kbd
nrm
mdf
rue
nds
amh
hye
csb
fur
mhr
hsb
isl
pcd
lad
dan
bar
lav
urd
sna
jbo
por
eng
nso
nno
nav
pan
lug
mri
csb
lad
tel
lat
arg
nno
myv
pfl
rup
grn
tyv
roa-tara
xmf
khm
hin
roh
tat
nob
xmf
bar
fao
ell
bho
hsb
nso
nso
khm
crh
que
bho
lrc
bel
tel
hrv
mai
spa
oss
pag
bho
uig
nrm
jbo
bod
tsn
fra
que
bre
jav
mkd
bel
ceb
mhr
srd
pol
div
sin
pnb
fur
pap
khm
che
pam
scn
frp
kom
fao
vol
new
ori
ukr
stq
mlg
eus
hat
dty
hye
tat
srp
oss
min
nap
ori
eus
war
tcy
lat
srn
arg
ast
bel
nso
srp
urd
sgs
asm
ces
dty
vie
kin
pap
lit
ell
afr
mkd
ile
bod
vol
mlg
orm
msa
sco
hsb
bjn
myv
ces
mdf
ina
swa
ell
tat
cym
cos
ltg
wln
cbk
ksh
kbd
mon
ind
guj
bpy
myv
crh
tam
vep
kbd
cbk
mya
dsb
isl
epo
sgs
cdo
eus
guj
swe
fry
gla
ext
glk
lrc
cym
nds-nl
scn
tha
tat
jav
hrv
ton
tat
nan
hsb
sin
mwl
sqi
tsn
eng
jbo
sna
gla
bxr
cat
tat
tel
ile
mkd
kaz
lrc
div
mar
cbk
pol
nan
che
jpn
fin
sqi
tur
nap
tet
lat
srp
frp
mdf
nap
tyv
hye
dan
orm
pap
mdf
fur
map-bms
bxr
ltg
lug
pfl
lat
dty
epo
srn
egl
bxr
bod
amh
tsn
ext
lin
lug
mwl
roa-tara
lit
cat
bjn
udm
rup
scn
arg
ceb
cor
cdo
ksh
ckb
ckb
mon
hye
kin
slk
mri
mri
min
asm
kom
ckb
lez
ori
cym
csb
kor
glv
gle
ace
ron
aym
msa
vls
nld
nld
bul
ast
msa
glv
tsn
pan
bod
xho
hsb
ckb
frp
oss
kan
isl
fry
tel
nno
ext
nan
lad
nso
glk
spa
tel
ron
snd
div
srd
lmo
nso
nno
hbs
stq
mya
lit
lad
srp
isl
crh
aze
kor
bcl
frp
frp
frp
lmo
vie
gle
hrv
cdo
hrv
pan
lad
gag
hat
vls
asm
asm
sin
cor
pol
sme
pus
sme
eus
lmo
sin
che
dty
dsb
roh
mri
zea
hun
wln
vie
swa
mhr
pap
kbd
ckb
sqi
tel
nep
pcd
pag
bul
mai
ton
ton
lad
aym
kan
ksh
glg
lrc
mwl
ind
kat
nds-nl
glg
vol
mkd
mkd
nan
ces
tur
nan
sco
hsb
tel
isl
urd
epo
dan
mal
lin
khm
cor
rue
mlt
ava
ang
bod
lat
mdf
srp
spa
div
hrv
oci
pdc
mya
kom
mkd
krc
epo
ukr
roa-tara
pcd
oci
map-bms
vep
stq
bcl
hsb
eng
por
ron
hun
ita
dty
pnb
che
grn
pap
spa
aym
egl
roa-tara
cos
asm
gle
pag
sgs
asm
tet
isl
ang
ind
bcl
oss
be-tarask
bre
ltg
afr
pfl
sqi
ces
wln
srn
vls
swe
deu
mon
nso
mai
hif
jpn
wln
pan
roa-tara
csb
ceb
yid
tha
bxr
ton
epo
tyv
nld
ang
pam
jpn
ita
mya
yid
pan
frp
pam
swe
bho
ukr
min
bre
pap
bcl
xmf
kan
est
ara
sgs
ltg
new
kat
nso
tet
hak
tur
swe
crh
arg
swe
mlg
ita
slk
ext
bcl
ile
be-tarask
hak
tsn
mai
nan
crh
div
san
tgl
mwl
hbs
nap
bxr
hbs
ces
mal
ava
que
rus
mwl
srd
lad
jbo
nds
msa
jbo
hin
aym
gag
cor
nrm
xho
ind
hif
fra
asm
jbo
cbk
roa-tara
gle
sco
crh
ces
fin
sna
khm
sin
fry
frp
amh
sme
cat
tyv
olo
kat
hye
lao
tgl
glv
nob
bpy
pap
div
grn
uig
hat
mlt
nrm
nap
guj
xmf
lat
stq
min
egl
nan
be-tarask
ile
cat
kat
cat
ton
fry
srd
epo
sna
slv
jav
vls
pan
cor
gle
srn
kor
msa
ita
bpy
vls
ita
afr
tat
rus
lug
arg
vie
tha
hye
srd
lav
vls
ang
urd
fur
als
tyv
crh
hye
mlg
est
vls
pdc
pag
new
kbd
ltg
kom
cat
als
csb
vep
lin
div
pdc
ltg
nso
oci
pfl
msa
san
ara
srd
new
wln
fur
fas
fra
bod
crh
orm
mhr
csb
vol
msa
pnb
fas
bho
csb
pol
mri
gla
tcy
pus
cdo
bjn
myv
kom
dty
ori
pdc
eng
pam
dsb
bel
slv
por
pol
tel
mlg
tat
lim
nds
egl
jbo
lrc
gle
cbk
tel
hrv
gla
kor
tyv
pan
tcy
krc
bre
kat
dsb
isl
rue
aym
sin
pnb
guj
mri
nav
egl
egl
bcl
fur
tsn
sqi
orm
ind
sco
kaz
lit
mya
por
nap
nds-nl
lim
gag
cdo
hrv
cym
vep
kin
dan
egl
ext
fao
isl
cos
bod
tet
ron
lrc
lin
bpy
lit
lim
vls
nld
mal
mai
bel
deu
swe
pol
bod
tel
bar
mlg
ast
srn
mon
msa
pcd
mlg
ast
crh
dty
be-tarask
est
mdf
afr
vls
grn
mhr
vol
ton
mal
jpn
hak
ind
nrm
pam
min
mri
khm
nan
fas
roa-tara
slv
hrv
pfl
vie
sme
lat
grn
lmo
tel
kaz
tgl
als
kor
kaz
dty
hbs
tyv
slk
ron
che
msa
map-bms
jpn
rup
fra
hin
bho
rus
mhr
vie
glk
yid
fas
uig
scn
ext
vol
san
cos
oci
sin
pdc
ceb
tur
cor
tgl
ile
pag
hun
hak
hye
rus
guj
tat
fra
pus
srn
guj
pam
afr
ita
ces
udm
kor
ori
udm
hye
glg
pdc
mkd
new
min
pol
pfl
ton
rue
hin
bre
lin
khm
afr
xmf
vol
ara
rus
tsn
xmf
gag
snd
bul
tat
min
mhr
roh
olo
bul
tyv
srn
tur
pcd
san
myv
sin
tat
ori
ltg
epo
fin
bod
mlt
olo
war
srp
aym
orm
nap
kor
lit
koi
swa
ori
hbs
hye
hye
ckb
scn
pag
egl
guj
lrc
hsb
fin
khm
tsn
tet
pcd
sco
ind
lrc
srp
nep
pus
crh
tsn
bjn
lin
ara
kbd
mdf
amh
mlg
ang
lad
san
hak
mwl
sin
ava
eng
mri
guj
lit
ckb
srd
vol
bul
nav
hye
csb
bre
fur
bar
hin
mdf
por
tgl
lad
asm
sin
rus
bar
pol
srn
glv
bod
hsb
ita
nep
sgs
pan
lin
tha
nld
ang
cos
hsb
fur
tam
bcl
lim
hsb
bre
ell
tsn
div
sna
eus
bcl
ces
yid
roa-tara
ava
sqi
tcy
tyv
sin
mar
que
tur
olo
vep
nno
mdf
san
ang
tha
sco
lin
cdo
hye
cat
mlg
mlg
por
fas
ron
csb
hsb
gla
mon
oci
xho
ori
srd
ceb
ces
kbd
bpy
pam
pus
wln
als
cat
stq
oci
bul
sgs
srp
bod
csb
ltg
lin
udm
new
nep
isl
hat
sin
fas
aym
hin
lim
spa
hbs
glg
sqi
krc
slv
egl
epo
tyv
als
tel
bul
pam
tsn
ksh
krc
tsn
bar
mon
msa
cor
div
bxr
cym
xho
vep
tsn
stq
tam
ltg
rue
sme
aze
vie
mai
sco
vls
afr
cat
ast
gag
oci
vep
tcy
san
pag
ava
ces
nav
ton
fas
isl
arg
orm
fao
tgl
lrc
nav
fry
por
ibo
lrc
grn
glg
nan
sme
bod
spa
lim
guj
cat
msa
lez
nld
ile
hat
cat
eng
lao
lin
vie
por
mal
vol
fin
jav
ori
rup
dty
slk
bar
ckb
tat
epo
rue
glv
kat
hye
khm
vls
pcd
ina
fin
lmo
kaz
mri
aym
bho
mwl
pfl
ton
mya
kin
nno
kom
ukr
fao
sco
mdf
kaz
tet
ori
cos
nso
ext
tat
ara
mon
lim
nno
be-tarask
als
ace
afr
lim
pcd
hif
als
pam
tur
mai
hrv
slv
aze
asm
dty
tat
pus
spa
dan
pcd
krc
yid
bod
rue
pnb
dsb
tet
bcl
udm
ava
que
bar
gag
hun
div
sco
che
dan
sin
jpn
wln
afr
als
mal
ita
sna
bre
scn
lav
kat
tel
pap
mal
lez
kbd
sco
kin
xho
glv
mlg
lad
cym
hak
mri
kom
ukr
kor
ita
mai
jav
cor
war
lin
ast
hif
guj
kom
stq
fin
mhr
wln
snd
olo
ell
mal
nds-nl
mai
frp
tgl
sgs
fin
que
hak
cdo
hrv
srp
pol
hat
afr
srn
cbk
asm
sqi
bpy
div
olo
egl
pfl
rue
ibo
rup
bho
bul
sna
ava
lad
egl
sgs
new
guj
lin
bxr
hbs
tel
che
min
lez
crh
xho
oss
msa
div
roa-tara
aze
tyv
hif
hak
ckb
ltg
sna
nrm
hun
hye
udm
lat
tyv
zea
tet
hif
bul
bxr
ceb
swa
pam
est
slk
ava
rus
swa
pdc
stq
sna
ell
nep
kaz
cat
wln
ast
kom
nep
nap
dty
tcy
lim
jav
nav
bho
lad
war
bul
cos
lez
guj
crh
snd
krc
guj
roa-tara
tet
ltg
asm
aym
uig
tam
war
ang
kat
lez
mar
als
ceb
ace
nso
tcy
nno
min
hye
xmf
spa
ceb
egl
uig
mya
ile
lav
bxr
tel
rup
nav
mar
afr
srp
nap
zea
ces
swe
lat
sgs
kat
hif
gle
pnb
gag
tel
hrv
tet
glv
jav
mri
glv
zea
cym
ton
cos
xmf
asm
jpn
sgs
aym
koi
als
msa
ibo
hbs
mlg
mal
lim
lad
ceb
bpy
fur
mya
hrv
xho
lav
map-bms
koi
isl
nap
roh
ina
bar
frp
map-bms
nan
mal
glg
tsn
kan
olo
kor
pag
pol
ckb
spa
zea
fry
est
tel
mai
ces
udm
vie
vep
tel
tur
pag
gag
cym
rus
war
tel
pcd
sqi
tgl
lat
bre
fin
pan
srp
hye
war
vep
lao
roa-tara
kin
kor
pag
ile
lat
dty
pcd
aym
bxr
ton
nav
nan
lav
ltg
lao
ang
myv
cbk
kom
sqi
ace
bel
war
ace
fao
sqi
hif
mlg
nob
mkd
sme
kom
gag
ext
aze
tyv
cor
tel
mwl
bel
kan
est
mai
nan
cdo
glv
urd
frp
pap
rup
uig
bar
sin
nav
roa-tara
kom
por
gla
dsb
afr
ori
hrv
roh
sme
mai
ukr
olo
aze
tet
san
afr
fra
crh
be-tarask
hbs
swe
tcy
grn
hif
kaz
ceb
lmo
sme
mhr
sin
pag
sme
rus
mkd
ron
lim
rue
nld
bcl
ell
nap
jbo
cbk
jpn
swa
pdc
sme
hak
cdo
gle
tcy
hin
ile
nld
por
slk
gag
war
cdo
gla
msa
nob
ell
nds-nl
map-bms
vol
deu
swa
tat
lug
lrc
lug
nrm
hak
zea
nld
lao
stq
wln
nds
bho
war
gla
ast
map-bms
slv
ava
ckb
lug
wln
kom
afr
tsn
mlt
san
tam
nan
slk
arg
che
zea
egl
ibo
cdo
por
sgs
sna
ron
frp
pap
ast
pcd
grn
sin
bho
jbo
ita
ron
deu
war
hif
ina
pap
olo
als
que
wln
hbs
koi
div
gag
war
amh
ell
por
tsn
lez
fao
vie
nds-nl
ang
ori
mhr
eus
min
mwl
urd
msa
hin
slk
tsn
hif
orm
msa
lug
aze
glv
nds-nl
ast
scn
xho
tur
hin
map-bms
rue
ast
uig
fra
pan
tcy
krc
lmo
roa-tara
ceb
oci
bho
tcy
sgs
jpn
ukr
crh
lug
pag
min
map-bms
sco
mwl
grn
ton
deu
san
nap
dsb
bar
isl
deu
xmf
kbd
oci
bho
khm
pag
slk
cat
jav
gla
fao
ace
rup
sme
hrv
mar
cbk
csb
olo
jpn
lin
sqi
hrv
ace
mwl
rus
ita
cor
ext
ton
war
sqi
koi
nob
ile
dan
lim
jbo
ace
krc
hif
lao
grn
ara
fas
pol
olo
frp
ell
slv
zea
sgs
que
est
cat
tam
ext
krc
mlt
bpy
scn
tam
oci
map-bms
pnb
lez
slv
srd
ang
arg
frp
est
mwl
tsn
dsb
bre
tcy
als
nno
lez
war
lin
ibo
gle
rup
tel
nrm
sin
kbd
eus
tha
hye
tha
nso
bel
tur
mya
tam
slk
udm
ell
sqi
xho
ang
amh
lat
slk
dty
guj
war
lav
isl
che
myv
cbk
tsn
ast
fas
mya
fra
sme
eus
aym
mon
vol
ceb
lad
urd
be-tarask
kat
ita
orm
afr
oci
bel
fra
mhr
bho
hbs
nds-nl
srp
nld
ind
slk
pdc
srn
gag
rue
srp
eus
ton
bxr
amh
bul
bar
cbk
kan
kat
isl
ukr
sin
lmo
grn
tat
slv
orm
ell
pdc
lug
fur
oci
bar
sin
rue
nav
ibo
ltg
hun
swe
lin
eus
aym
hin
sco
oci
bxr
slv
mai
tam
pnb
srp
fry
srn
lmo
epo
cdo
isl
sme
kbd
mkd
ava
mlg
kat
krc
ell
urd
als
vie
min
sin
uig
roa-tara
krc
lat
eus
ksh
wln
fry
vol
tam
lao
aym
fry
eus
vie
cdo
mlg
ltg
dsb
map-bms
lin
jpn
fra
gag
hif
lim
ltg
sco
vol
oci
sqi
nld
olo
koi
pap
cor
swa
que
kin
bcl
sna
gla
nap
ukr
pol
mya
grn
mhr
koi
nob
dty
csb
roa-tara
ckb
msa
bod
lat
tcy
bcl
cat
ton
hsb
ell
cym
hat
nob
bod
isl
ita
kom
srp
krc
spa
ita
cat
udm
csb
zea
map-bms
hbs
bcl
pag
stq
jav
ksh
bjn
mya
tha
arg
lin
tel
ang
lim
egl
hrv
pfl
mon
sin
jpn
nld
guj
ile
bel
zea
myv
glv
koi
tet
por
fry
tur
ksh
glv
ext
rus
tam
mlt
ton
isl
ext
sme
slk
olo
pap
srn
ang
sgs
bjn
kat
swa
aym
hak
urd
nap
tyv
bul
ile
swe
tat
dty
ind
ell
glk
tsn
mal
cat
sme
jav
que
roa-tara
mri
oss
bel
bar
cor
kaz
cdo
cbk
glk
bre
tat
wln
ton
sna
uig
rue
dan
gle
nap
egl
bar
egl
lez
sme
rup
yid
bar
pan
ile
mai
tet
lez
jav
lao
mwl
lad
pcd
nrm
tam
mar
est
hsb
hin
yid
oss
ukr
ara
hrv
rup
ast
mar
frp
pus
nno
dty
myv
sna
pnb
rue
orm
fin
hsb
hsb
lao
myv
nav
gag
rus
snd
mwl
roh
hak
stq
nno
jpn
nav
oci
bpy
gle
grn
ara
afr
srp
sme
war
bcl
ces
sgs
scn
vls
zea
ukr
amh
bel
slv
mya
mal
tha
war
slv
tyv
sna
gag
isl
swa
mlg
mon
bxr
lmo
lit
nld
ibo
mri
nep
yid
hif
tur
rup
cbk
fra
gag
gla
nob
min
nds
olo
lin
mwl
cos
sqi
pam
glk
vie
ckb
udm
kin
fas
pcd
ukr
slk
csb
pdc
nso
ang
hak
ile
asm
hrv
snd
nrm
lim
pap
nds
ceb
aze
guj
nan
hbs
roa-tara
sin
srd
nav
ara
ast
sco
dty
nds-nl
pag
tam
tam
cdo
lug
kaz
myv
nap
rus
roh
kan
war
mkd
krc
ang
ell
ile
ang
aze
nob
fra
fry
tet
por
hif
pdc
nav
krc
myv
new
lad
srp
pus
xho
vie
glk
mhr
khm
afr
cat
xho
fao
pfl
tha
mal
fin
tcy
jpn
que
pdc
lao
oci
rus
isl
orm
stq
dty
rue
crh
bpy
ltg
ibo
fra
jbo
stq
roh
div
hat
srd
tel
ext
dan
amh
fao
dsb
tyv
bcl
cor
lug
ext
mdf
srp
vol
ukr
tgl
ile
nob
oci
tur
lrc
che
kin
rus
ceb
snd
srp
hrv
nob
mwl
sin
nrm
snd
oss
dan
isl
jbo
bar
fry
lit
ckb
amh
fin
jbo
arg
ina
vol
egl
mon
por
bre
bpy
srp
hun
hun
als
epo
mwl
dty
urd
pfl
map-bms
udm
mar
mon
udm
pap
ces
pag
ava
ast
roh
nno
pol
mar
rus
ukr
crh
ell
tgl
bxr
pol
tha
ton
bjn
hbs
ceb
lez
nrm
bho
ile
que
swe
lin
tha
msa
lit
nep
cor
vol
slk
be-tarask
min
xho
ukr
isl
eus
swe
hbs
oci
nds-nl
tha
oci
jpn
nrm
ava
aze
lim
oss
ron
nds
lat
hbs
egl
kor
csb
nrm
rus
lez
tat
bho
rus
ang
nds-nl
hsb
mwl
tat
myv
hbs
hrv
pan
nep
bel
pdc
fra
cat
min
tha
kaz
oci
slk
mwl
srn
pfl
cat
roa-tara
be-tarask
kbd
map-bms
isl
kan
oci
ukr
pcd
yid
che
yid
por
ibo
aym
map-bms
ind
srp
aze
nld
amh
cbk
pfl
isl
bcl
kan
mon
nav
asm
srp
egl
glv
gag
che
kin
lug
deu
nso
jpn
srp
hif
tam
ace
xmf
bcl
eus
tha
nds-nl
gle
hak
nds
eng
kom
nan
ace
hun
ibo
glk
glk
isl
koi
hak
pap
koi
pfl
ron
mal
ibo
ukr
jpn
bar
be-tarask
ukr
vep
koi
mdf
lug
wln
kin
koi
rup
che
zea
myv
afr
ile
pdc
deu
tat
rup
nds
mlt
pdc
krc
khm
pdc
ceb
oss
hrv
tsn
tam
glg
wln
ara
che
bod
lad
kaz
tat
csb
fur
ceb
cbk
mai
nds
ace
pnb
cat
nan
roa-tara
aym
pap
kaz
pag
ltg
mal
mhr
tel
oss
lin
tet
bod
ile
mal
dty
tam
sna
nav
snd
hrv
bjn
bre
swe
por
rue
dan
tet
jpn
khm
dsb
hun
snd
scn
fry
ast
map-bms
fra
arg
fin
pam
hun
ind
olo
hun
swe
div
krc
che
snd
pam
div
snd
mhr
nrm
ita
olo
swe
cym
guj
jav
bxr
tyv
fao
tha
deu
gle
gla
lug
ell
lit
bul
tyv
que
sme
grn
kom
tyv
fra
tam
ara
mri
pdc
wln
fur
mhr
ang
sqi
ron
pfl
hbs
hin
mai
orm
be-tarask
cor
crh
ind
rup
oci
snd
stq
fur
hat
sme
hye
ext
fas
hye
olo
ind
cos
ukr
srd
hbs
uig
hat
bxr
hsb
pam
afr
tsn
bxr
fao
mri
mkd
deu
rup
swe
bre
bjn
ast
kin
lmo
zea
ell
bul
por
kaz
bho
lit
kor
nrm
hin
lez
rup
tgl
myv
scn
pol
pag
ind
mai
san
arg
map-bms
ile
hbs
lmo
mar
srn
pcd
sqi
pap
ron
lrc
stq
slk
bre
kor
tam
cos
nep
bar
dan
dty
nso
roa-tara
eng
vep
tgl
nds-nl
lit
mal
ext
min
pam
hrv
uig
bjn
jbo
als
bul
ang
roh
srp
div
rus
pdc
ibo
cos
xho
pus
ces
hsb
fra
kor
jbo
zea
pol
vls
hrv
cor
uig
urd
scn
tat
tur
por
vls
nav
lez
ell
kat
mri
dan
lug
ces
khm
ind
new
mon
cat
kaz
spa
vep
afr
bre
ton
nan
fry
new
rus
guj
bod
tha
lrc
lao
msa
mai
mar
ell
hak
epo
roa-tara
sme
msa
bul
kbd
glv
nno
pag
mwl
als
mwl
glg
bpy
bho
arg
mar
ara
sme
ton
orm
srn
scn
est
kbd
ces
tet
ava
fas
bcl
nrm
tet
vol
tgl
rue
bel
fra
grn
nav
scn
guj
bcl
ind
hin
snd
swa
pfl
be-tarask
jpn
bxr
srn
xmf
oss
ara
orm
ceb
tha
sin
swa
san
tgl
ori
dan
kor
swe
nep
vls
fas
pcd
nno
nan
hsb
pnb
est
tcy
kat
fra
mai
pam
hsb
sna
nan
pdc
lat
isl
glk
div
nds-nl
ext
udm
bho
aym
hun
zea
pcd
ltg
sna
cat
ile
stq
lmo
bxr
arg
crh
nap
ang
pol
nds-nl
hrv
be-tarask
gag
nno
tsn
gag
jpn
tat
sqi
pan
aze
crh
myv
frp
pag
lat
fin
vep
min
war
min
ksh
ile
bxr
tsn
lin
mai
crh
est
hak
srp
kin
fin
stq
tel
vol
hat
rus
csb
ast
pcd
srd
arg
cos
msa
aze
min
nan
dan
ext
cos
jav
ton
mdf
ukr
egl
dsb
jbo
tsn
pan
lav
new
isl
tgl
fin
gla
srd
ton
glv
hat
hsb
bar
eus
bel
mar
krc
tcy
dty
olo
nds-nl
oss
rup
vls
ckb
que
swa
pnb
mdf
scn
bre
bjn
dan
nno
lit
asm
xmf
vol
scn
srn
crh
por
roa-tara
pag
wln
eus
nap
tur
cdo
tat
yid
asm
vls
scn
vol
cor
vep
lug
fas
orm
fas
hsb
hbs
ceb
ina
gag
koi
oss
rup
ori
eus
rus
pus
jav
slk
bul
vep
tha
ton
arg
kin
tcy
vol
lat
ibo
div
ces
sna
aym
slk
nld
slk
hrv
ron
tat
krc
jpn
tam
aze
afr
bho
cym
khm
yid
glv
sqi
mwl
mri
gle
fas
kor
nno
glk
uig
ltg
sco
urd
ang
xmf
fur
lin
gag
lat
vie
rup
uig
oci
mhr
nld
che
hbs
lim
ina
eus
amh
isl
cos
tur
mya
scn
nld
cat
ton
tam
sco
egl
kom
ina
amh
hrv
lad
bod
zea
aym
div
bjn
fas
gle
lin
srn
sqi
srp
krc
gle
mdf
ell
est
nap
hye
rup
eng
ksh
mhr
ckb
cor
pap
ita
ara
pol
nav
new
jbo
lao
ron
mai
vol
mkd
ceb
slv
lit
stq
bjn
rue
hin
vol
rus
jpn
khm
nav
afr
fao
bpy
asm
cos
bjn
pfl
krc
aym
rus
vie
srn
snd
wln
hin
bxr
tcy
lrc
mdf
koi
mai
fur
oci
dan
map-bms
hye
xho
gle
nap
ace
bcl
ori
ron
hsb
vie
tha
tel
bho
tat
nav
vep
cor
hrv
war
jpn
swe
pdc
lin
mya
hbs
afr
hin
kaz
sqi
mhr
war
egl
pan
aze
pap
slv
srp
new
ces
sme
afr
hat
pfl
aym
tcy
mhr
lug
lao
urd
pap
mwl
mon
tur
kbd
asm
epo
mya
ceb
lin
nap
bho
isl
gag
ina
cat
bre
ang
fas
pfl
isl
ace
aym
fra
egl
ext
hbs
rue
ltg
aym
nan
eng
bcl
swa
sme
cos
lug
ori
lav
ast
dty
gag
nan
hin
bxr
lat
ron
bul
sin
bxr
jpn
ext
mwl
nob
nav
koi
mkd
glg
amh
tet
udm
rue
nap
glg
snd
mdf
lim
glg
xho
ton
gag
jav
bel
san
hif
pcd
bpy
bho
fin
nso
tcy
lat
lin
ton
fin
mai
eus
be-tarask
mri
ltg
mlt
glv
tha
ile
dsb
map-bms
ltg
lez
roa-tara
cos
afr
pol
nds-nl
udm
sqi
nrm
swa
srd
egl
msa
tel
gag
sqi
asm
yid
lit
gag
als
ile
arg
koi
sco
nld
pdc
hin
bel
kin
nan
ile
tur
lao
sqi
lad
tyv
hin
mon
aym
ckb
grn
msa
scn
hrv
orm
lao
hbs
mar
por
que
ace
hsb
slk
ast
div
sme
krc
nld
crh
uig
ori
nob
grn
grn
tam
ava
ina
tat
fra
nob
est
hsb
crh
pus
fra
stq
lez
eus
xho
lin
kom
nob
lin
mhr
krc
roh
crh
egl
nld
ile
roa-tara
ell
swe
urd
ron
afr
rus
scn
vep
bpy
aze
tcy
sgs
cbk
ibo
cat
mlg
ace
lmo
ksh
fas
tam
crh
fao
ibo
nav
crh
pcd
arg
olo
bcl
srp
isl
tsn
ton
cat
olo
hbs
tsn
roh
bjn
lmo
crh
hrv
nob
kat
bar
roh
khm
swe
aym
tsn
mhr
jbo
lat
ast
div
koi
tyv
vep
kat
lug
wln
tgl
ukr
glk
glk
amh
fur
mdf
isl
jbo
hbs
nds
min
zea
bxr
ces
vls
est
tet
swe
bod
srd
spa
tyv
lad
srd
uig
glg
pan
olo
swe
lez
gle
srn
ckb
mlt
pam
afr
jbo
csb
mri
als
cor
que
lez
nep
sqi
nno
mal
slk
spa
tgl
nap
lao
tyv
srn
ces
tet
snd
bpy
tsn
cym
ina
cos
cor
crh
oss
cos
pap
zea
div
tet
ile
grn
hif
spa
mya
pnb
lao
roh
arg
est
lav
lat
mya
tgl
che
pfl
sin
lin
map-bms
khm
jbo
grn
sin
tur
slv
hye
slv
fin
orm
kin
pol
srd
fur
hif
hye
aym
mai
div
sme
roa-tara
kom
deu
mya
rus
sqi
gag
pag
kan
tha
tel
egl
ind
kor
crh
yid
amh
hsb
mwl
orm
pus
tgl
dty
xmf
nno
ukr
fao
ast
por
asm
sqi
ltg
lao
san
ksh
nav
ton
ibo
myv
nno
nso
nep
lmo
mhr
fur
tam
jav
vol
be-tarask
fra
mhr
ceb
bar
kat
glv
pus
oss
uig
crh
urd
csb
nep
new
mlg
roh
gag
bcl
roa-tara
nno
gla
nap
oss
ckb
dan
egl
vep
sqi
rue
mal
gle
wln
bjn
eus
ang
asm
sin
csb
div
pan
ara
pnb
spa
mwl
lrc
fao
eus
sin
hif
mar
ibo
eus
ile
aze
udm
fin
dty
guj
pdc
gla
ang
jav
krc
bar
div
krc
ibo
be-tarask
bre
slv
bho
sqi
vep
kan
bel
lrc
dsb
tam
ori
nep
grn
yid
pol
lat
bcl
amh
sin
srd
srp
vol
lug
rup
hsb
sin
new
kbd
swa
vie
zea
xho
egl
egl
lez
pag
bod
hat
hrv
pag
lin
cor
koi
amh
ast
wln
fin
bre
cos
vol
be-tarask
vep
ton
pag
sin
sgs
bho
gag
spa
tyv
hak
snd
pnb
cym
myv
tsn
srn
hif
glv
wln
hun
mai
hun
cym
lav
rue
rus
nds
mlt
srn
sin
ast
guj
ton
pag
kom
mhr
roh
vie
nap
zea
glv
krc
bpy
tur
dsb
jpn
stq
ceb
isl
ava
mai
div
nan
lim
khm
map-bms
hsb
mhr
oci
tur
jav
vls
ell
lav
oci
lin
rup
tur
uig
jpn
ukr
dsb
pam
kan
aze
ton
cdo
tet
fur
kom
nds
nap
hye
hbs
vls
ara
mon
guj
frp
guj
nep
war
min
amh
jbo
kin
pcd
vep
cor
mlt
aym
fra
ina
guj
yid
oci
hun
sgs
swa
nrm
bjn
orm
isl
bxr
zea
ina
tat
ceb
tat
sgs
uig
mar
egl
olo
orm
ron
scn
san
kin
bre
orm
mlg
kor
mal
sco
vep
lez
dty
sqi
mai
aze
sqi
orm
hun
san
als
mwl
fra
ita
lez
ell
pus
csb
fra
san
sna
jpn
jbo
tet
khm
stq
tat
kin
glg
fao
stq
rue
hat
stq
hat
mai
pus
bjn
tur
uig
ile
deu
fin
kom
pan
hun
ind
div
nld
srd
vol
uig
isl
pag
pan
fao
min
als
fry
amh
rue
sco
mlg
fin
afr
nob
tgl
ind
hak
epo
bxr
pam
nrm
lim
isl
bxr
frp
swa
bod
isl
bho
cdo
mhr
vie
swe
rup
nob
arg
pcd
gle
ina
nso
myv
snd
sco
be-tarask
guj
snd
mdf
bel
hif
ltg
rus
dty
nep
ton
swa
tet
eus
ell
egl
bjn
nav
ibo
hrv
roh
lit
pan
new
hak
arg
ksh
dan
bel
ron
hye
stq
tat
deu
swa
kbd
eus
rup
bre
mhr
bel
ind
che
fur
ksh
ton
tam
mlg
che
ast
lad
srd
csb
epo
nrm
nds
tgl
ceb
nob
cos
udm
vie
mhr
kom
kan
amh
ceb
oss
est
tgl
gle
ell
ukr
hat
hye
ang
tur
bxr
lad
jav
bxr
gag
pag
eng
xho
lad
als
ckb
aze
guj
tyv
xmf
rus
aze
ava
vol
slv
gag
ang
afr
sin
sna
slv
hye
kaz
ckb
egl
que
snd
lrc
tat
tat
srn
lmo
lao
sqi
jbo
ukr
lrc
sgs
vls
rue
gle
nap
uig
lin
bar
tha
dan
xmf
fur
mai
hif
ext
als
srp
sna
ron
lrc
asm
wln
be-tarask
hak
slk
sin
kan
khm
lav
vie
als
aze
lao
rus
nrm
mdf
por
ast
cor
tcy
xho
srp
ara
lug
rus
mon
nso
orm
glg
glg
lug
nso
koi
ibo
map-bms
vep
dty
orm
nob
nso
gla
mkd
cos
yid
ara
fin
dty
hsb
lat
guj
vol
nrm
grn
ext
srn
pfl
kbd
asm
pag
lao
aze
ksh
kor
nav
jav
pan
frp
hif
sin
cdo
nno
sna
krc
orm
bpy
tam
ile
vie
csb
ava
sqi
guj
tel
ckb
ile
pfl
tat
grn
gag
fas
gag
msa
sna
fao
orm
pnb
lin
roa-tara
dty
fry
xmf
sme
div
fin
slv
bod
dsb
pcd
bho
fas
bul
est
ksh
gle
glv
tam
pan
dty
jpn
lez
srd
nav
als
ton
wln
kom
nob
csb
nob
glk
ile
aze
msa
ava
hun
mon
cdo
map-bms
ara
lad
tur
ell
ang
als
pcd
gle
cat
sco
bre
vls
arg
est
ang
ind
vls
mya
slk
mya
cbk
hsb
sme
hat
slk
dty
cor
nan
lin
aym
koi
slk
pap
swe
sco
aym
ron
vls
bjn
yid
sqi
zea
afr
isl
map-bms
snd
que
frp
gla
frp
ast
bcl
swe
ckb
rup
tyv
tha
new
hak
kan
sna
lim
deu
bar
slk
bod
krc
ksh
jav
hak
slv
srd
cos
dty
ton
ast
fin
ckb
grn
cos
udm
ind
kbd
ast
kbd
amh
nno
vls
hin
bxr
glk
spa
fin
nso
roa-tara
nap
pan
mya
csb
pag
oci
bcl
bar
urd
ceb
jav
vol
nep
guj
jav
lin
sgs
nds
tat
olo
zea
fur
dan
bul
tat
por
asm
map-bms
vls
rue
nso
hrv
eng
koi
nap
pap
epo
epo
swe
nds-nl
rus
sin
gla
eus
uig
glk
asm
gla
gle
olo
nap
pus
nob
uig
vie
che
srn
cym
fao
ita
mri
tel
ces
kaz
crh
tcy
srn
dan
snd
zea
bod
nap
egl
spa
pan
que
tam
ksh
pfl
mal
mya
tsn
vls
xho
srd
pdc
cdo
cym
vep
grn
uig
ori
yid
rup
pag
mri
ita
cat
xmf
nld
nan
min
rus
sin
roh
ind
pol
rue
srd
ast
nav
lrc
orm
tel
egl
fry
sco
lad
jpn
cdo
yid
cym
nld
mal
bod
roa-tara
arg
lit
ast
ton
lim
ceb
cbk
spa
roh
ceb
hbs
yid
pdc
amh
hrv
srn
vep
kan
hsb
tat
lat
jpn
hrv
pfl
msa
bod
sme
myv
guj
swa
bpy
krc
afr
est
hun
krc
pag
amh
bar
lad
gle
nep
olo
nld
jpn
lug
fao
sco
stq
fao
sqi
gla
nan
dty
srd
nno
asm
lao
eng
bcl
gag
lug
urd
spa
swa
cdo
udm
ava
aze
kor
jpn
xmf
mar
ell
vep
roa-tara
ava
fas
myv
cdo
ksh
glv
tam
new
sin
mlg
tha
pol
roa-tara
slk
ltg
olo
nob
msa
cor
be-tarask
nld
gag
tyv
kin
hye
ina
nob
hrv
swa
kbd
hrv
sgs
mdf
yid
jbo
rus
lug
frp
mar
ell
bho
gle
srp
tcy
nso
bho
bxr
tsn
rup
tur
eus
dsb
ast
deu
udm
ang
mya
lad
pap
div
map-bms
roa-tara
cat
cym
fas
ara
ind
hrv
fas
tyv
cos
tel
bel
ang
pcd
nep
tel
frp
rup
sin
mya
tam
pam
tyv
aze
mai
fry
bul
hbs
hbs
div
ara
lad
bcl
hbs
map-bms
aze
udm
ara
snd
spa
myv
mai
tat
tha
pam
rus
lav
mai
deu
grn
kbd
mya
be-tarask
ace
msa
pdc
hak
glv
por
vls
pdc
pol
urd
glk
uig
hrv
snd
xho
udm
mri
bpy
ckb
sgs
be-tarask
amh
afr
vls
srd
myv
war
isl
jav
san
gag
slv
khm
ton
jbo
sme
nno
mya
tel
gle
mwl
hbs
est
hye
mri
sqi
scn
pan
ukr
ace
fas
pan
che
ell
slv
bar
cdo
cor
ava
xho
jpn
rus
tat
arg
lez
scn
nrm
hye
dan
nob
div
nds-nl
slk
myv
vls
nld
tyv
ext
kat
rup
lat
tam
urd
egl
che
mai
kan
dty
epo
vol
xho
bcl
bpy
nld
mdf
kan
che
eus
pcd
olo
pam
kan
lad
sqi
kat
ara
fas
srd
jav
mwl
eus
nep
udm
ava
ton
rus
hak
cdo
ang
nrm
hif
frp
be-tarask
nap
tat
min
ckb
pcd
nrm
kin
mlg
kin
xho
nds-nl
sme
div
tcy
glg
bjn
pdc
arg
ltg
sco
gle
mlg
tcy
orm
kom
map-bms
csb
aym
myv
roa-tara
aze
xmf
tur
khm
dsb
udm
tur
ina
ina
slk
epo
oci
guj
khm
min
est
hbs
sqi
tha
koi
fin
wln
est
fao
lad
glv
fur
pol
nno
vol
ace
eng
swa
sna
que
lav
slk
que
tat
bjn
tsn
urd
nan
mlg
cym
rus
mon
bpy
swa
tam
aze
tcy
asm
por
ltg
afr
eng
aym
spa
cbk
mai
olo
vie
krc
khm
cym
eus
tcy
lat
hif
nds
frp
kbd
bre
lao
san
bod
epo
nno
cos
cbk
srp
mya
nld
lad
olo
lez
sna
guj
aze
ile
sme
vol
lim
bar
rue
cdo
aze
tsn
que
tel
ltg
nan
bcl
bxr
cdo
isl
udm
gag
glk
nob
lug
pdc
nso
udm
rup
kor
kor
mri
ell
kaz
amh
est
dsb
bre
mal
rup
sgs
kat
slk
hif
div
fra
jpn
jbo
isl
ori
lat
roh
hif
urd
nno
mlt
swa
msa
cor
san
pfl
afr
tat
srd
mya
mlg
rup
sme
ind
kat
mya
hye
fas
fas
mlg
bul
kan
tcy
div
ukr
hrv
lez
fao
grn
fin
fas
swa
che
lav
cym
guj
swe
cor
be-tarask
gle
glk
isl
bjn
lmo
asm
bod
cat
mar
sco
frp
vie
guj
glv
ori
als
hrv
amh
kaz
mon
roh
grn
mhr
bjn
snd
ces
glk
frp
rup
pap
eus
dty
min
eng
nds
pol
ron
ava
fao
rus
roh
uig
myv
mai
mwl
ang
tcy
bcl
pap
kor
san
tsn
jbo
sqi
isl
ind
kaz
asm
new
bar
que
mdf
pus
tgl
bre
nan
kaz
ext
vie
sna
sme
nan
min
udm
slv
sco
lrc
roa-tara
mkd
ext
mri
zea
csb
nep
tel
nrm
fin
ceb
grn
slv
gag
ile
stq
tcy
cbk
mkd
glk
ell
ext
kat
xmf
mlg
mar
fry
pag
pnb
swa
jpn
tam
fin
khm
nap
tet
tha
pol
hat
oci
jpn
ksh
mwl
pus
mlg
bre
ckb
vls
ceb
nds
glg
hsb
mlt
fur
vep
lim
tat
koi
ton
ltg
que
nan
lmo
ces
tgl
bre
bre
mdf
dan
mlg
tyv
bar
mai
sqi
pfl
ceb
mlg
tel
mhr
fur
hat
nno
tcy
kan
oci
oss
glk
slv
bre
lim
ava
pnb
ell
hbs
nob
als
snd
tur
bpy
tam
aze
mri
pnb
uig
fra
san
koi
fas
mya
roa-tara
fra
che
kan
xmf
hye
gag
pfl
bre
sqi
dsb
tha
ces
lim
eng
lez
nan
dty
arg
ckb
swa
khm
sme
tat
pap
urd
arg
tgl
pus
mya
guj
glv
tam
slv
dan
wln
fas
hsb
mlg
ceb
tha
pan
lao
gag
nap
hye
nep
tat
tcy
oss
tat
fin
guj
glk
grn
fur
ara
gla
que
ind
sgs
lao
xmf
jpn
kan
pan
grn
udm
csb
aym
krc
pdc
bod
xmf
new
mlg
vie
lav
nso
hsb
nso
fas
snd
cbk
nds
nob
nno
ell
uig
bho
grn
por
dan
srn
xmf
ksh
koi
fur
roa-tara
urd
ori
stq
bul
mlg
nav
bel
be-tarask
srp
gle
sgs
ltg
hif
mkd
san
bjn
sin
est
bel
gla
hrv
div
que
hat
pam
snd
pfl
nan
ile
als
lit
tel
ita
uig
bpy
asm
csb
eus
urd
vie
wln
mkd
olo
mal
kin
frp
gla
ext
hak
lez
slk
dsb
nds-nl
krc
nep
tsn
que
nan
guj
san
yid
eng
eus
jpn
ltg
rus
srp
hsb
glk
kat
new
be-tarask
mwl
hin
nap
zea
rup
hif
kor
asm
mlg
swa
nds
grn
swa
lao
cor
mya
pnb
bho
kbd
dty
hbs
bre
frp
nrm
csb
csb
cat
ina
mri
fas
sme
tyv
nds-nl
olo
lug
aze
cos
sqi
hin
ext
tgl
ava
mwl
ron
ukr
cor
csb
glv
mar
stq
kan
kor
cdo
hak
pam
vie
jpn
ltg
tha
bxr
kaz
bxr
nno
che
map-bms
lad
new
nld
ksh
ceb
hye
bho
ton
aze
nob
lrc
hbs
tcy
egl
guj
epo
jpn
mai
dan
sco
fry
kom
stq
mwl
ext
mlg
lrc
bcl
dty
zea
koi
tet
isl
tyv
asm
lug
kan
hrv
tha
wln
ibo
lim
glv
nob
yid
roh
que
nep
pap
stq
vep
bxr
rup
bar
kin
snd
vep
gla
vep
hye
hak
orm
slv
pcd
hak
bul
myv
tat
be-tarask
map-bms
lit
lmo
ita
rup
slk
hye
por
csb
ita
ind
pan
rus
bcl
nds
pus
tet
srd
pus
vol
orm
nav
grn
urd
ces
vol
che
aym
dan
mlg
hif
lmo
sna
que
ace
sgs
ori
sme
lit
ori
tsn
sgs
mon
ltg
egl
ron
mlg
rup
myv
hin
bho
fry
guj
tgl
be-tarask
hif
tet
bel
amh
tsn
lrc
ace
hrv
pcd
div
lav
eus
ukr
als
mkd
afr
por
war
lit
spa
ckb
san
amh
ang
gla
cor
slk
tur
zea
sco
hat
bod
mya
bjn
mri
grn
ext
lmo
oci
nap
vol
fry
mai
snd
glk
xmf
mya
jav
yid
ksh
por
ara
dan
vep
yid
hsb
hak
lao
vol
ces
div
stq
jav
ceb
bxr
ang
glv
guj
cat
mya
ron
zea
nan
mri
ita
mwl
frp
pnb
que
nan
pfl
sme
olo
ron
ceb
bel
spa
ltg
kom
sqi
ile
ell
rus
sna
lug
min
fao
mya
cos
cdo
div
vep
bre
isl
hat
ile
hat
min
eng
pol
kaz
uig
rup
sin
tat
lit
bho
dan
scn
ltg
sna
lez
oss
oss
lez
ina
lug
mon
glg
nld
wln
ces
tyv
ibo
tsn
deu
srp
dan
bpy
lrc
mai
mkd
gle
spa
epo
mon
ile
deu
urd
lez
dty
hif
pap
ile
cos
pcd
fao
mri
pam
sqi
lit
mwl
eus
lrc
kin
glk
rue
glv
pam
nds-nl
roa-tara
hsb
bar
mwl
epo
gag
sme
crh
grn
mdf
rus
pcd
che
srn
dan
ina
pol
pcd
lad
por
swa
aze
kbd
ext
hif
sme
che
eng
slv
lat
lug
pag
hun
guj
fas
dty
ext
nds-nl
frp
lim
eng
fry
epo
sna
epo
nrm
ext
roa-tara
koi
mri
ori
ext
hun
kin
mai
bar
lez
pag
lrc
mya
hye
vep
nan
pdc
khm
nld
glv
hrv
mwl
srn
als
pag
hbs
tyv
nds-nl
ton
yid
gag
bjn
lin
san
khm
pdc
lat
olo
dsb
ltg
lez
mlt
cos
fra
roh
ava
eus
slk
ace
war
lad
hbs
bpy
bre
krc
mal
aym
lrc
xho
por
sin
arg
vol
lat
lin
krc
frp
ton
aym
ori
uig
sna
mai
sgs
wln
slv
kat
slv
ita
lez
sin
glv
udm
frp
crh
que
lrc
bel
ksh
roh
deu
kbd
fur
nep
vep
guj
vie
wln
hsb
kbd
pag
bul
tsn
krc
sin
lin
sco
lad
udm
jpn
orm
ind
sme
wln
aym
fin
kaz
cos
nrm
nav
ron
ron
vls
ces
ext
yid
fas
mar
ile
fur
swe
kan
nso
pnb
sgs
pol
nso
nld
pnb
ukr
eus
ita
dan
cym
hsb
ina
ces
ile
lrc
bul
nob
min
vol
bpy
ind
fin
swa
afr
kat
hak
pcd
nld
hsb
bod
fry
afr
rup
ell
mkd
mon
pdc
fur
lez
vep
nrm
tcy
ava
tsn
jbo
kin
ile
spa
nap
fao
hin
pag
bho
tet
cym
glg
egl
dsb
est
bul
pus
swe
glv
ceb
vep
arg
lrc
roa-tara
csb
ori
hin
egl
hin
dty
nrm
kaz
wln
cat
fry
hin
ara
sme
nld
msa
slv
tyv
mar
ava
lit
afr
mlg
mri
nno
vie
pap
gla
tat
eng
slk
xho
kat
cat
sna
pdc
ile
lim
nep
kaz
tyv
gle
hye
kan
pol
lez
vls
aze
por
oci
kin
tam
hak
hin
gle
sin
ava
sna
dty
ita
ron
lug
aze
snd
ukr
fin
glk
nan
oci
hak
nld
pus
sin
afr
isl
che
nan
vls
krc
fry
rup
ton
mri
bxr
be-tarask
lin
ckb
jbo
cdo
bxr
stq
snd
fra
fur
kan
fao
ces
pam
kat
hrv
pnb
als
mar
fur
isl
vol
vie
ukr
pnb
afr
lez
myv
nan
mya
fry
bho
oss
sco
pnb
pus
tgl
hrv
lrc
hin
khm
mhr
mwl
dsb
mya
kbd
khm
bar
mhr
ron
mal
sna
isl
min
als
xmf
cor
arg
sgs
ace
gag
glv
lav
fry
be-tarask
bod
oci
mar
pag
glg
cdo
ind
gag
aym
sme
glv
tur
kbd
que
mdf
ceb
xho
fin
ang
ell
ace
bul
lit
olo
gla
fao
bjn
epo
aym
rup
nds
roh
rue
ceb
fur
ang
ava
xmf
ckb
vol
asm
ces
kbd
che
srn
ita
epo
yid
vol
gle
hbs
pus
nrm
ext
vol
cdo
tcy
glg
egl
ltg
nob
ceb
ton
kaz
swe
mal
tel
mhr
pnb
hat
est
rus
hin
nrm
xho
vls
pcd
fin
kat
bxr
sgs
sqi
ara
isl
snd
dty
pan
guj
tha
swe
pan
tam
ksh
lat
frp
snd
udm
ita
sin
lug
bre
lav
glk
ind
csb
mon
bod
lmo
new
deu
spa
jpn
cos
pan
fao
asm
ind
bre
pfl
nso
map-bms
bre
map-bms
vol
nav
urd
glk
mlg
sin
por
sqi
rus
mlt
khm
amh
lin
lez
sco
pus
orm
swe
krc
deu
cos
dsb
mya
swa
kom
csb
yid
dty
pap
pdc
tet
ara
olo
swa
spa
mri
dan
dsb
bjn
por
vie
glg
tat
asm
map-bms
nds-nl
jav
jav
lrc
dan
kbd
oss
rup
egl
nld
bho
mwl
glv
asm
asm
be-tarask
lrc
tur
tsn
kan
roa-tara
mlt
ukr
asm
kor
udm
pus
jav
nep
hrv
bcl
bod
lao
gag
olo
nav
glk
ile
pap
nan
nds
dan
tur
ton
cym
gle
fry
dan
ext
ind
kbd
hrv
lat
eus
tsn
jpn
nno
be-tarask
afr
ita
lin
vep
nap
map-bms
slk
lad
tsn
map-bms
lav
cos
vol
srn
tcy
arg
mri
bpy
jav
glk
bpy
tur
bho
eng
hin
fry
pol
zea
new
pus
fas
hif
mon
gle
hin
bod
snd
rus
jpn
urd
kom
amh
kaz
bar
pam
mdf
csb
ast
cat
sme
mar
bcl
fur
glg
eng
ace
xho
wln
lat
olo
nep
rup
est
div
ang
tat
nan
srd
bho
ckb
eus
new
tgl
ile
tgl
glk
afr
sqi
ace
uig
snd
msa
srp
est
ara
lit
hsb
tel
csb
yid
hsb
hye
ile
mai
ast
tel
bel
zea
ina
fra
gla
min
lad
bho
gle
pag
pam
slv
ori
nno
lrc
tsn
mkd
aym
hrv
frp
lrc
swe
orm
new
mar
nav
kan
gag
arg
guj
roh
cat
mwl
nan
bjn
gla
scn
pfl
ava
ind
grn
lug
fra
tcy
bxr
bel
bel
lrc
ton
swe
tyv
rue
swa
bel
fas
pnb
mdf
guj
mon
ast
ind
ace
kbd
amh
tyv
uig
udm
nav
fry
myv
eng
ksh
srp
tyv
ang
mai
isl
nrm
vep
mal
new
myv
bjn
aym
swa
mri
lmo
be-tarask
tam
bar
ces
eus
frp
slk
asm
mai
amh
vls
pdc
frp
srd
fry
hsb
glk
kom
ara
olo
fin
yid
ceb
ita
ang
tat
ukr
pnb
hif
aym
glv
csb
slv
cat
est
orm
cor
lin
arg
mon
kin
lad
slv
bul
lug
est
hif
fas
mar
scn
bel
ara
lmo
be-tarask
hak
pag
vie
kom
gle
roa-tara
lad
bpy
swa
por
gle
bxr
asm
kat
rue
zea
dsb
gag
tel
fin
frp
tsn
rue
eus
jbo
pag
lav
nso
ast
lmo
csb
vls
ast
pol
gla
xho
mhr
ast
koi
glv
pus
vol
sin
pap
new
hbs
rue
gag
new
uig
tgl
ron
egl
jbo
pap
ori
bre
lug
lrc
bul
arg
afr
ukr
roh
min
pam
zea
bar
khm
hin
rus
ara
uig
est
min
mdf
lug
ksh
lin
nep
bod
bel
urd
yid
nno
als
bcl
zea
new
fry
rue
als
kan
cdo
bre
hif
asm
isl
tel
hin
gag
ile
jbo
sme
myv
ava
gag
pag
bre
ara
ron
cos
sin
ces
roa-tara
frp
pcd
oss
tgl
div
crh
grn
jpn
oci
ext
fas
orm
csb
be-tarask
ile
fur
hak
arg
bxr
roa-tara
nds
nob
tur
nrm
srd
bjn
mdf
hye
nav
bre
nrm
deu
kan
uig
nep
lin
koi
ara
rup
bar
san
tat
sco
oci
ita
fas
cym
tet
gla
bel
pus
pdc
kom
jav
be-tarask
cym
mri
yid
stq
fao
vls
pag
nno
cym
kbd
dsb
oss
nds
ang
epo
kor
be-tarask
bjn
sqi
ava
kbd
ast
ksh
bar
zea
guj
frp
ile
hsb
fao
scn
lrc
dsb
ile
lav
vie
ori
nrm
pnb
hun
div
guj
ori
map-bms
glg
nep
jpn
srp
srn
hat
mlg
ava
csb
hak
tam
deu
mri
xho
aze
sin
hrv
koi
cos
xho
grn
pnb
hif
vls
nrm
hin
ces
che
jpn
deu
xho
spa
crh
min
bjn
udm
ron
mai
kor
mhr
nso
swa
pcd
hye
min
ori
mal
tsn
udm
mlt
bpy
guj
new
mya
lug
pus
bxr
roa-tara
asm
frp
fry
tha
sgs
new
tel
pag
rue
lao
glg
bxr
sme
ina
nep
sco
pnb
isl
tsn
bar
pcd
kbd
pcd
div
cor
jpn
ita
kor
kbd
xho
olo
sna
spa
kin
kbd
pdc
min
egl
hin
mar
grn
bxr
tur
oci
ita
pap
pus
oss
vol
mal
als
xmf
new
kom
roa-tara
ksh
srd
csb
cat
vep
cdo
uig
cos
ltg
eus
srn
glg
dsb
est
che
eus
sme
nep
eus
srd
tsn
kan
lim
xho
glk
srn
tyv
war
min
ksh
srn
csb
koi
spa
ceb
nrm
olo
msa
lat
ckb
hye
ckb
rup
fin
tat
pfl
hbs
isl
bcl
sqi
sqi
csb
nan
asm
nso
dty
hun
div
sco
lin
ces
mri
kat
lug
bel
aym
por
koi
slk
lim
wln
ori
mai
stq
spa
ksh
roa-tara
khm
bul
deu
lin
pus
eng
afr
sgs
tgl
ast
ile
hif
mlg
grn
lim
crh
ext
vie
vls
bjn
lat
lad
tam
xmf
ceb
ava
lad
min
bjn
mhr
lez
pag
tsn
hbs
bxr
jav
por
orm
olo
sin
vie
lat
koi
yid
tel
aym
tat
lat
khm
scn
nav
mwl
swa
por
epo
ina
div
mhr
eus
gle
mon
nds
mon
pfl
war
glk
asm
que
mri
glv
map-bms
arg
kom
mlg
ibo
olo
ibo
bxr
hun
gle
war
ext
myv
pag
udm
wln
cos
bxr
ibo
slk
nso
mlt
nep
kan
dsb
nld
pap
sin
frp
tur
mdf
pdc
ava
bxr
pol
rus
dsb
lin
slk
glv
zea
yid
khm
che
nrm
bod
mhr
khm
crh
kbd
che
ces
eus
hun
eng
sme
hif
ibo
kor
glk
roh
mhr
mhr
lad
cos
war
hin
wln
ita
pfl
ckb
por
che
roh
fas
hin
swa
ind
nno
xmf
asm
pnb
gle
nep
ton
pus
frp
rue
div
mar
lao
slk
kor
nno
pus
als
ukr
jav
fas
gla
be-tarask
msa
mwl
gag
nds
che
pfl
nan
mar
bjn
kin
cbk
mhr
gla
ace
frp
deu
mlg
oci
ckb
ile
tsn
kin
eng
jav
sin
sin
bcl
aze
sin
ces
nds
tyv
nso
mhr
pus
olo
fin
ori
nav
est
ina
ckb
slv
mdf
tet
que
mwl
hat
msa
pdc
lit
jbo
hak
cat
ext
slk
cor
cor
eus
ckb
isl
tel
mdf
fur
min
fur
mai
pus
kor
snd
fao
cdo
be-tarask
yid
kat
arg
yid
rue
asm
ksh
nld
gla
arg
bcl
hif
oci
eus
hye
vie
cym
swa
bjn
ukr
urd
jbo
hat
snd
sgs
new
lat
ton
kom
ces
nno
div
tat
nrm
mal
pdc
lat
zea
pap
hye
pag
glk
hak
wln
mlg
khm
lug
ast
msa
hin
san
gla
arg
lez
lad
ile
mhr
koi
eus
mlt
mwl
pan
crh
aze
swa
nan
urd
kor
ext
khm
hye
glg
epo
fra
srp
ukr
eus
fas
por
kor
gle
hrv
nav
bar
nan
war
asm
sqi
jbo
fin
oss
olo
bjn
lim
spa
ina
kom
grn
pag
cor
kin
dsb
srn
fra
kan
vls
uig
dsb
fur
mlg
zea
scn
xho
fin
vep
arg
por
lug
swa
srd
mar
crh
tat
uig
swa
swa
bel
epo
als
lad
wln
hye
que
ace
che
jbo
nso
sme
bjn
kbd
bar
srp
lrc
kbd
msa
lat
crh
yid
aze
nds
pap
rue
kor
jav
vol
frp
lug
mhr
nan
mlt
urd
hrv
lao
nso
koi
vls
sna
zea
mlg
fin
egl
tat
slv
krc
sin
yid
slk
eus
koi
grn
fra
map-bms
dan
mwl
ltg
sgs
roa-tara
krc
min
srn
ron
ang
fao
cym
ukr
ava
ast
aze
yid
vep
olo
mwl
hin
por
mar
stq
tyv
oss
kan
dty
swe
cdo
rup
lmo
tur
ang
dsb
jbo
nep
mon
map-bms
glk
ukr
isl
mya
srn
lim
sgs
epo
tel
stq
cos
hbs
nds-nl
lin
olo
sna
slv
bod
guj
kin
vol
ast
gla
urd
ceb
rus
spa
ina
tet
mkd
vol
bod
msa
cor
fra
ukr
ang
tam
stq
ibo
glg
glv
pus
oss
srp
koi
srp
kbd
spa
ita
tyv
mdf
kbd
xmf
be-tarask
mal
lav
mal
als
gle
vls
kom
yid
bcl
tam
lrc
mal
uig
gle
nld
grn
tyv
ori
sco
vie
lim
mon
rue
uig
ces
kaz
fry
hat
tha
pus
hif
ind
bcl
sin
hif
orm
cym
roh
roh
ltg
kaz
sna
sin
que
que
dsb
hbs
ces
ext
ast
tgl
rup
kin
pnb
hbs
kor
lad
ton
hsb
nds-nl
tat
csb
pap
div
cym
tgl
gag
mwl
scn
glg
vep
hif
cor
nno
lrc
tam
tet
aym
csb
lin
bcl
mkd
koi
wln
map-bms
pam
ibo
pfl
stq
hin
tam
roh
myv
kin
arg
msa
ukr
glv
jpn
pan
tcy
krc
bar
fur
ace
pam
pol
ara
srn
jav
mlt
kom
pag
rue
pdc
nds
uig
gle
ceb
rup
hun
bar
koi
crh
yid
nds-nl
pap
ara
lez
jbo
lit
hsb
tgl
bre
lit
lao
sna
ile
fin
bpy
ceb
nrm
srp
tsn
vep
aym
aze
cdo
epo
zea
kbd
kor
rup
cat
ckb
che
glg
bre
div
ckb
ava
vie
aze
dan
frp
ind
ces
ast
afr
hbs
mri
tel
bho
tel
cat
ara
nds
sme
crh
kom
kin
ton
crh
glg
eus
lin
nob
jav
eng
cbk
nrm
bel
zea
ang
ara
pdc
hye
tet
orm
lim
tha
sme
lat
slv
guj
mlt
roh
ibo
rus
ext
hif
srd
udm
che
fao
nav
ace
cor
cbk
mdf
mhr
hsb
spa
mya
hat
mon
olo
amh
lim
min
swa
sin
scn
xho
rup
rue
sna
pcd
tsn
hif
fur
cbk
mlt
cat
kan
pcd
nap
ron
ace
mal
lav
tur
ceb
cor
mya
lao
scn
sin
grn
frp
hye
eus
orm
aze
amh
fas
fry
guj
mar
tel
rus
ita
sqi
srd
mwl
nds-nl
swa
oci
aym
hif
hat
xmf
ast
snd
swe
jbo
ces
hrv
pnb
slk
zea
jbo
khm
war
ckb
lim
pcd
ton
ina
lug
hun
min
fao
tyv
slk
pdc
msa
asm
khm
fin
urd
nep
nds-nl
gle
arg
pol
nob
ina
oci
bul
mkd
scn
gle
srn
hif
xho
kin
hye
slv
sgs
xho
bcl
cos
ang
wln
roh
slv
fra
ita
che
vep
ibo
pan
ile
pnb
mlt
bpy
asm
ori
wln
kom
msa
swe
mar
lat
swe
bar
jbo
uig
rus
tur
sqi
be-tarask
hrv
lit
bar
gla
ind
sco
xho
bul
gle
lez
srd
mar
pnb
slk
ukr
cdo
msa
roa-tara
ind
bpy
spa
tgl
nld
tha
tam
vls
mhr
gle
nep
dan
khm
vep
scn
xho
war
jpn
kor
pdc
epo
nan
bho
mhr
nds
cdo
isl
fur
lim
kaz
xmf
uig
tat
map-bms
afr
grn
afr
hbs
rus
lin
ext
lrc
hun
tel
scn
tcy
msa
dty
dsb
srd
krc
frp
ksh
lez
rus
roa-tara
lat
srd
hif
lim
srp
rue
nrm
lim
sco
eng
mai
nno
ace
pcd
cat
vie
nep
slv
lav
pam
sco
bxr
aze
ina
oss
epo
vls
dty
cym
isl
scn
tsn
nld
ell
khm
fas
fao
sco
glk
aym
kat
oci
vls
bod
ron
pag
isl
hin
hin
tyv
jpn
mal
mlg
mon
tha
lez
hin
nds-nl
tur
be-tarask
ace
gla
xho
grn
cbk
cym
nrm
koi
nap
tsn
eng
lmo
bel
isl
xho
kor
lim
map-bms
nld
ckb
fur
srn
bel
pcd
mai
ext
fur
roa-tara
srp
hin
fra
pag
lat
crh
ell
nno
hun
xho
mal
ces
scn
lin
cor
rup
krc
nds
mhr
egl
swe
asm
xmf
lav
tat
lat
grn
asm
egl
que
rup
epo
nld
aze
rup
fra
be-tarask
rup
pus
jav
vie
srn
ace
srd
lat
bjn
cdo
yid
mkd
ara
snd
dan
spa
vie
mri
glg
est
slk
que
lav
egl
oci
bar
sme
oci
nno
tcy
pan
bul
aze
swe
eus
swe
amh
pnb
lmo
hak
lad
isl
cor
bcl
pus
nrm
pam
csb
eus
egl
pfl
hun
ibo
swe
cbk
epo
fas
pcd
be-tarask
fra
pus
sna
dty
amh
afr
nav
orm
fin
roh
bel
mya
rus
urd
cdo
ton
vep
pag
nan
bho
lad
srd
mon
ksh
hin
bcl
fin
slk
nld
pcd
war
bho
nno
aym
srp
ceb
fur
grn
vep
ckb
xmf
bjn
nob
kor
pan
khm
ukr
isl
afr
tam
orm
fra
war
hif
slk
fra
rue
bpy
mal
fin
eng
pap
jbo
pam
mkd
bod
als
mkd
mri
bho
new
yid
cbk
fas
wln
oss
fas
fin
nds-nl
ina
pag
uig
csb
sna
hbs
tel
ibo
ext
ace
fas
olo
jav
bod
pag
oci
fry
cym
lav
aym
spa
fao
urd
orm
ind
urd
spa
ext
hun
tgl
ori
pus
dty
uig
pan
nno
crh
amh
ell
kbd
uig
roa-tara
ind
ava
sna
yid
ina
bre
roh
cos
bar
vol
tur
sqi
nap
nno
tha
pan
mdf
xmf
ava
lez
hye
pam
lin
mhr
glg
srd
san
isl
tet
war
dan
amh
crh
orm
fur
ckb
nds
dan
nld
mri
amh
nap
xmf
sqi
nan
jbo
pap
hak
swe
cos
nds
msa
pam
dty
bxr
pan
bul
fin
mon
lim
ell
nds
kan
nav
que
gle
hin
lao
ang
cat
bho
rup
tel
vls
que
ibo
nld
myv
cos
hak
sqi
ell
rus
nso
yid
aze
fry
ell
egl
kat
vol
nds
be-tarask
ton
sna
cor
bel
slv
ang
que
rue
nld
ace
map-bms
ibo
pap
rue
rus
tyv
vls
pnb
ina
oss
ace
nno
srp
fur
mwl
dan
udm
glg
tel
hsb
mya
bar
hrv
ace
lrc
pdc
msa
sme
urd
lit
crh
ori
ile
vls
hif
tsn
che
guj
tyv
xmf
gag
nno
bjn
swe
snd
ron
hin
nso
aym
nep
afr
sqi
pnb
afr
asm
mai
nrm
aze
bul
mlt
sqi
lit
mhr
sco
ast
ava
fry
nld
lmo
hrv
uig
pfl
pap
ara
bho
tam
crh
krc
che
hun
fao
che
fur
por
kor
swe
kat
tgl
pam
ltg
lao
bel
asm
deu
nrm
mai
ori
be-tarask
bel
nep
krc
bxr
lav
bel
jav
ceb
jav
olo
mar
pag
pnb
yid
vol
udm
khm
stq
lav
als
epo
yid
nob
afr
nav
tcy
san
myv
glv
lug
hat
olo
mwl
eng
tam
vol
ibo
crh
nds
vep
oss
deu
hrv
yid
pan
che
ltg
slk
ibo
srd
lez
isl
cdo
sin
jbo
cos
cor
tur
tyv
nds
ang
bod
mal
sme
fra
hbs
tha
hun
lmo
tet
khm
oci
sqi
vep
eng
tcy
hun
hye
min
gle
sqi
isl
uig
nav
jpn
ton
tcy
ell
new
hbs
div
nds
mdf
dty
pcd
hbs
guj
hin
swe
slk
spa
srn
tur
kaz
sin
cor
pfl
mal
snd
ava
san
myv
bod
lrc
srn
lin
lrc
mri
ltg
est
srd
fry
hun
vie
cym
pan
gag
kbd
cdo
hat
glv
afr
pol
oci
que
cdo
ckb
ces
pfl
aym
nno
tur
lrc
pap
orm
rup
zea
amh
pdc
vie
orm
gag
orm
afr
zea
amh
bul
khm
kin
roa-tara
tyv
sin
pap
fra
nav
kaz
ile
ksh
bar
zea
rup
mon
nan
eus
ton
grn
hun
roh
msa
ast
dan
ang
nno
nno
cbk
nob
ori
kat
cym
cat
nld
nds
ceb
ibo
ksh
jbo
ita
kat
slv
ell
gag
srd
pan
nav
bho
csb
lez
nso
cos
khm
vls
pam
asm
nds-nl
sin
dsb
tam
pan
glg
krc
div
ast
pfl
cor
bel
bxr
bel
ara
pan
myv
lrc
eng
ckb
war
xmf
glk
oci
vie
hak
ckb
tsn
srd
glv
yid
cym
bpy
pol
ukr
arg
xmf
mdf
por
nav
ava
aym
pag
jpn
scn
hbs
frp
cat
vol
dsb
gag
bcl
koi
jbo
aym
fas
tet
ext
roh
egl
khm
ell
lit
ita
hye
tet
crh
bre
srd
roh
kat
glg
jpn
nds
sqi
crh
crh
tur
asm
lav
che
srd
srd
deu
aym
lav
bul
new
cos
srn
spa
tel
eng
nap
tet
bod
sco
nds
ava
dty
ton
sgs
ita
mlt
fao
ukr
hye
zea
che
pol
lat
nld
ukr
sco
nan
jav
lao
bjn
tyv
eus
min
map-bms
nno
sgs
pan
jpn
ton
mon
ina
eng
srd
asm
mhr
ast
eng
dan
fin
tha
hin
nso
uig
kom
sgs
gla
tgl
mar
bpy
gag
kbd
cos
msa
hye
ell
bho
swe
nap
als
ast
snd
war
est
srn
gle
mal
eng
aym
lav
sin
pam
cym
yid
fur
dty
urd
roh
uig
bjn
glk
hat
lat
dsb
kaz
aym
afr
vie
oci
nno
ori
ron
nds
ksh
kom
nld
grn
tat
ibo
tam
lim
ceb
frp
sme
lav
tsn
mkd
swe
zea
lad
amh
eng
bul
srp
olo
tel
nap
sgs
fur
swe
hye
xmf
ckb
guj
gag
cdo
dty
bar
olo
eng
xho
roa-tara
new
ron
est
bar
srp
grn
cat
bpy
bjn
pan
mon
ita
arg
slk
rue
asm
crh
ksh
ksh
pam
ceb
cos
asm
jpn
lit
swa
wln
mkd
ton
est
tcy
que
msa
krc
lmo
mkd
ckb
hif
est
sgs
cym
roa-tara
kaz
gag
eus
pag
kat
mlg
vol
gla
pfl
nan
ind
rus
isl
lug
deu
grn
tgl
ile
nds
ron
snd
ori
jav
cor
cos
roa-tara
cbk
bho
nld
olo
bel
glk
isl
war
tsn
spa
nob
hak
pam
ell
bod
zea
mwl
snd
pol
pap
ukr
swe
tam
cbk
nds-nl
eng
csb
lao
cat
map-bms
mai
crh
glk
asm
ava
kat
be-tarask
csb
mdf
eus
guj
ind
mri
nld
tat
san
ile
tur
pan
myv
epo
olo
jav
rue
gag
ext
mlg
pdc
uig
kan
ava
rus
mlg
xmf
kan
lez
mkd
bxr
arg
min
lin
ita
bjn
glv
nan
ceb
div
msa
ita
lmo
dsb
lug
ast
als
myv
rus
nob
ron
tur
arg
nrm
grn
mal
pfl
kaz
ksh
nan
tyv
pfl
ron
be-tarask
jav
new
hin
vie
lao
sin
epo
bxr
fin
gle
grn
khm
aym
tha
afr
hun
mlg
pcd
kin
swe
vol
tsn
jav
nav
rue
kan
frp
sna
srp
lmo
ile
ext
tsn
hye
nrm
mal
eng
mri
fur
que
rue
hun
nav
mwl
srd
new
pap
oss
kaz
pan
oss
pnb
xho
war
sin
lav
snd
snd
rup
mhr
hye
kaz
vie
fas
slk
jbo
ltg
por
pol
mar
ceb
ita
pnb
div
pcd
dan
hak
bar
pnb
kbd
sin
lug
sco
srd
div
cbk
lao
amh
lat
tel
nso
tur
ext
bho
kor
hun
slk
olo
bho
new
lin
isl
eus
oss
kor
tet
bpy
frp
urd
oss
vep
cat
jbo
lug
san
msa
mon
pus
snd
hif
war
srd
san
slk
gla
koi
lav
kin
lav
rup
hin
kan
mlg
lim
udm
roh
arg
stq
vep
asm
pol
slk
tel
lav
jpn
amh
glg
lez
ton
lao
ori
hsb
bxr
est
ukr
arg
slk
sme
kom
orm
ton
xmf
bho
ukr
scn
ang
cdo
vol
yid
bpy
ang
ell
ava
srd
nld
myv
sqi
aym
nds-nl
fao
pus
gle
hat
vls
egl
vls
asm
be-tarask
isl
afr
hat
oci
stq
zea
sin
swe
krc
cat
mal
hye
ibo
hrv
fur
kor
glg
crh
mon
aze
eng
cat
nld
ext
kaz
new
vol
fra
cbk
ava
por
mri
guj
sqi
orm
fin
pol
nap
ita
oss
fas
amh
new
ron
ext
xho
bre
mri
arg
crh
roh
ukr
kan
new
ori
lat
ron
fao
lez
hak
mlt
rue
ori
nno
ava
lez
scn
frp
glv
ces
tsn
nrm
glk
myv
nso
cym
lim
hif
lrc
hak
mon
lmo
wln
tur
dsb
arg
vol
new
nav
nan
bel
deu
vls
pol
bpy
ast
san
kom
dty
xho
xmf
pol
hye
msa
uig
fin
bjn
hsb
oci
roa-tara
sco
scn
srp
lad
tat
fur
orm
ava
fra
swe
tur
roh
aym
mal
glk
aze
wln
isl
cdo
fry
fra
snd
xmf
lit
pus
roa-tara
nan
sna
mdf
tet
slv
amh
ara
nob
roh
orm
cdo
vie
csb
srp
tat
yid
kaz
pcd
mri
lim
roa-tara
spa
nav
hsb
slk
hrv
nno
roa-tara
fry
pus
slk
stq
udm
nld
srd
nav
uig
ara
xho
aym
por
hat
ind
rup
ton
ckb
nep
ext
nob
srn
lav
afr
ind
yid
tsn
nap
spa
map-bms
uig
map-bms
amh
san
kan
msa
vls
ceb
hif
xmf
gag
kan
arg
mwl
tyv
udm
ell
sco
tha
bre
ltg
mar
aym
guj
mon
ell
nav
pol
fin
mar
ita
nso
rue
sin
ext
vep
srp
orm
min
mya
udm
che
pol
nap
mai
ckb
xho
slk
bre
dan
slk
udm
amh
grn
vep
nan
glv
ori
lin
asm
sme
rus
nno
lao
xmf
grn
bxr
oss
min
nld
glg
fin
grn
map-bms
fur
yid
amh
crh
grn
myv
lad
bre
hun
kan
isl
kat
vol
lao
vol
lmo
arg
min
msa
glk
slv
ace
lug
srn
epo
scn
ceb
tam
jav
pan
ibo
che
egl
ast
fin
eus
slk
tur
tam
yid
hin
mhr
fao
asm
tsn
nds-nl
pcd
ceb
cbk
cdo
pus
kom
urd
sna
nrm
urd
tur
ibo
kor
egl
hsb
ceb
sco
wln
pag
slk
orm
ang
hrv
asm
lao
ukr
ron
glv
pus
jpn
rup
glv
rup
pag
dty
dty
lim
roh
nno
gla
fin
hrv
tet
tur
nld
stq
mal
bre
bar
bod
csb
rus
vie
krc
glg
ava
hat
bul
lao
swe
hin
ksh
dty
pfl
ile
new
asm
lat
urd
bul
kom
war
tha
est
nld
epo
ron
che
gla
vie
mlg
vie
aze
roh
tsn
pcd
tsn
cos
aym
rus
aym
wln
be-tarask
eng
lat
ceb
lmo
glv
tet
sme
slk
bre
bre
cor
nso
bre
tam
ori
lit
hif
msa
ron
div
amh
gla
bxr
cym
aze
sin
hak
che
nav
hye
mon
est
jbo
udm
krc
mlg
koi
tel
lav
hrv
zea
srd
hat
lrc
srd
nob
lad
mon
glk
kaz
rup
tel
msa
lez
lrc
bel
udm
mdf
bel
lrc
lmo
war
sna
amh
mdf
grn
mar
mai
min
pnb
ori
lit
tsn
tcy
afr
grn
kat
cbk
urd
gag
rue
arg
als
gle
nan
fas
xmf
jbo
dan
ita
mlg
tha
tgl
zea
dan
dan
lin
sqi
tcy
dan
fur
udm
mwl
fry
map-bms
pfl
zea
mwl
lez
oss
pnb
grn
cat
rus
xmf
tam
scn
vie
jbo
lmo
lez
krc
afr
che
tha
fur
pag
fur
arg
xho
oci
jbo
ukr
jpn
jbo
bar
pdc
tsn
ukr
bul
grn
cbk
hif
sqi
lit
aze
fao
bod
nap
snd
pdc
slv
arg
nrm
als
srp
cos
sme
orm
mai
cat
dty
cbk
roa-tara
mya
cdo
fin
grn
que
be-tarask
ceb
ava
kor
min
ita
hrv
olo
msa
mkd
lrc
orm
ori
mri
ckb
fin
lug
pcd
roh
ceb
ces
mdf
tat
gla
kor
olo
mlg
scn
ton
srp
rue
spa
tyv
bar
hun
ori
lrc
crh
map-bms
isl
eus
ast
ava
ext
kaz
tel
cat
pag
tsn
swa
ceb
swe
mhr
tcy
mya
pam
bre
oci
vol
dsb
nso
nav
min
sqi
uig
snd
fur
sna
lez
slv
fur
hin
rus
cym
mwl
fao
nan
cos
nds-nl
fry
lat
tat
ind
bar
kin
ace
vep
jav
ton
cat
hbs
bcl
spa
pap
roa-tara
sna
nep
tam
tcy
zea
ces
aze
ell
sna
tsn
epo
hsb
hun
slv
guj
krc
tha
tgl
hsb
lit
kom
fin
mal
bxr
bxr
udm
hif
rue
rup
cor
ron
glv
egl
ltg
hye
lez
rup
frp
lao
cym
san
bxr
sgs
afr
vol
sme
mon
roa-tara
fas
tyv
srd
hif
ell
hif
srp
tha
asm
ita
tet
udm
tsn
dty
grn
vep
slk
nrm
sme
spa
tyv
oss
slk
hat
aze
ind
war
be-tarask
mwl
lat
koi
kom
mya
por
lmo
dan
que
swe
mkd
amh
lad
mhr
deu
bod
pol
stq
pol
ara
que
mai
glv
srn
tcy
udm
fry
vie
mai
san
new
tur
ksh
hun
sme
ibo
ceb
fin
ile
pan
epo
hye
hun
nso
ile
ltg
bho
frp
tur
khm
tat
bre
jbo
rus
asm
bcl
ibo
nrm
bul
mri
spa
bod
hun
pan
pnb
mkd
ace
ell
srp
pnb
krc
khm
ltg
csb
hbs
ace
sco
bre
nds
isl
nds-nl
arg
srd
pan
crh
tur
orm
crh
pap
xho
lrc
nob
grn
dsb
ksh
scn
udm
vol
deu
ile
hin
kom
lat
vol
hye
ron
hak
gla
hsb
gag
snd
tel
bpy
hak
udm
nep
tyv
que
pfl
pap
swa
tam
glk
afr
nrm
rue
bho
por
nld
epo
ara
tel
hye
mdf
lat
hak
eng
udm
pdc
pcd
ces
mhr
roa-tara
kor
ell
tur
urd
pag
nrm
jbo
csb
ext
crh
ext
pcd
vie
mdf
cat
frp
nep
mar
vep
stq
hbs
swe
gla
div
ibo
lmo
xmf
hat
mai
nds-nl
dsb
amh
egl
pan
pnb
hak
vie
ckb
pan
srn
xmf
guj
arg
csb
tyv
ltg
tat
egl
isl
srp
mon
lat
pap
lrc
amh
udm
ext
bre
snd
bul
nep
nds-nl
hin
ckb
koi
asm
eng
tcy
bcl
ceb
kan
amh
vol
srn
glk
nld
rup
ava
lao
ori
spa
ibo
krc
mar
jbo
rus
hsb
pfl
rup
ton
srn
afr
fur
ukr
hsb
udm
ron
que
bcl
mlg
slk
uig
fin
pnb
khm
mar
urd
hun
hsb
san
xho
bul
pfl
ron
tyv
scn
udm
mri
mar
mdf
ang
sgs
tam
msa
vep
tha
bpy
bre
tsn
sme
new
urd
ell
lmo
spa
ckb
mlg
pcd
pap
kom
kat
uig
kom
khm
bjn
ina
bre
pol
nds
grn
fas
mkd
orm
nav
fra
bre
nep
mai
pdc
ell
ara
cos
por
epo
arg
nrm
sna
cdo
cor
tet
hif
xho
tha
ukr
bcl
bod
mal
nso
xmf
nld
lmo
ava
tel
guj
hsb
ckb
ces
oss
kom
gag
tet
tel
tcy
tat
asm
aym
scn
hye
dty
war
pol
tha
ara
jbo
fra
grn
mlt
lao
lin
lav
cat
por
be-tarask
sgs
als
ltg
swe
kor
pcd
nno
lug
ast
ltg
hye
tam
tyv
pnb
nan
ang
mai
cbk
udm
pan
ton
bxr
spa
aze
hbs
por
gla
mdf
tel
bjn
ukr
aym
kom
tel
pag
mwl
cbk
hun
mri
mya
kan
srp
kor
fry
crh
vls
ang
olo
bho
mkd
kan
ltg
pus
nds-nl
glv
dty
swa
ceb
crh
ast
new
rue
bpy
mal
scn
kbd
lao
eus
vep
dan
mai
vol
glv
gag
swa
ang
mal
bxr
glk
eus
mlt
pag
glg
sme
srp
mlg
lmo
ava
urd
scn
mlg
mkd
ori
nrm
csb
ara
isl
bho
afr
tgl
ina
lav
cat
san
vep
nds
war
ang
ksh
war
mri
xho
amh
sin
ibo
kaz
udm
roh
ksh
urd
scn
cym
mon
tcy
por
lim
nds
hak
cym
nob
afr
hif
nep
lav
kor
lmo
xho
ile
bpy
fao
pam
nap
kin
bel
frp
roa-tara
stq
ltg
nan
sna
kan
pfl
ang
pan
kor
srd
mkd
rus
deu
mlt
bar
vep
cor
gle
amh
tyv
fin
hun
nrm
udm
que
hak
khm
ltg
pap
ang
mlt
pus
fin
bar
lez
san
ron
crh
bjn
udm
fra
pcd
mwl
hat
slv
pnb
pdc
lat
mlt
srn
ell
lmo
fao
min
pap
gla
ton
olo
nob
scn
pol
tgl
roh
ang
est
cdo
bjn
kaz
lin
ksh
orm
sco
bel
mlg
myv
nno
bpy
fao
xmf
pcd
mdf
scn
ext
cbk
hbs
bel
tel
kat
ukr
swe
fry
grn
hun
bho
slv
hye
vie
xho
bar
dan
ace
lit
ara
glk
lad
eng
khm
scn
fur
ang
crh
snd
cdo
ton
pam
nds-nl
epo
hbs
tet
pus
hye
fin
mkd
kor
khm
cat
kbd
spa
sco
bar
div
cat
mlt
bel
mlg
eng
ltg
ltg
lad
kbd
nan
hak
nav
xmf
xmf
que
dan
krc
nld
ava
jpn
oci
deu
hat
orm
ace
gag
xmf
kaz
cor
hun
bod
ast
snd
mlt
ell
nso
kan
ang
nds
ava
mon
orm
bar
guj
sqi
fur
jbo
que
sco
vep
pag
vep
tgl
jpn
bod
map-bms
ace
nep
vie
yid
hak
jpn
tel
swa
epo
kom
msa
ang
slv
vls
glv
gag
bpy
nap
lad
nds
lad
cdo
yid
fin
nan
sme
ara
vls
nob
csb
ltg
ile
dty
nso
san
nso
srd
cym
ext
slk
lmo
lmo
lit
cos
nav
tgl
lat
lrc
pag
epo
tam
scn
hif
uig
bel
sin
div
amh
slv
slk
gag
ita
aze
min
ava
gla
olo
cbk
kom
ton
ace
myv
fas
hsb
hak
egl
tet
div
bjn
swe
jbo
jbo
lao
nep
jbo
rup
vie
kaz
sna
pcd
kom
sna
amh
ile
kan
tgl
lmo
olo
kaz
hat
eng
orm
csb
ksh
est
vls
arg
kom
jbo
hsb
cbk
dan
cat
hif
udm
est
hbs
kor
deu
mlg
olo
div
mya
isl
sgs
ang
pfl
bel
sco
hun
pap
cor
isl
asm
hye
div
ukr
swa
vol
ind
cat
kin
bxr
war
kor
mlt
sqi
spa
ace
cor
sco
mya
tcy
ibo
amh
roa-tara
sin
pdc
yid
oss
nds-nl
ori
mwl
ton
roa-tara
nno
bcl
rus
asm
mhr
eus
be-tarask
bcl
lad
roa-tara
tha
sme
mal
bre
kin
kbd
fra
ton
cat
mkd
rus
ces
glg
fur
cat
nld
roa-tara
mya
lat
sqi
csb
jav
myv
hat
fry
zea
stq
pap
zea
gla
srn
rus
vls
roh
grn
lin
pfl
amh
tel
fao
oss
tyv
lin
deu
hat
lim
nds-nl
ksh
krc
kom
arg
mar
afr
jbo
ast
slk
ibo
bjn
snd
glv
ind
ile
mai
pcd
gag
crh
bar
uig
nld
ces
nds
roa-tara
hak
vep
isl
lit
ang
bjn
vie
min
cbk
cbk
srp
glg
hun
bod
pcd
myv
bcl
lav
ext
mon
cdo
bar
epo
roa-tara
yid
lug
hin
kbd
tet
tel
mar
asm
div
be-tarask
fur
kaz
glk
mlt
xho
als
pnb
glv
swa
guj
glg
est
war
vie
mar
slk
hrv
pam
jpn
als
ell
stq
asm
slv
isl
roh
rue
mon
nso
ksh
mlt
sin
lao
nan
mar
div
hin
lav
lit
fry
kat
nrm
hak
bod
vep
swa
snd
bre
cor
epo
pol
dan
nso
fao
sme
be-tarask
snd
bcl
kor
roa-tara
pcd
bxr
ext
oss
kin
roh
ukr
tcy
vol
che
nso
bel
urd
bod
asm
mdf
fin
xho
sna
srn
stq
jbo
khm
uig
csb
glv
kin
epo
gag
nld
lat
spa
lit
fur
cat
kbd
che
srn
jbo
kin
jav
sme
san
bod
kat
hye
afr
pap
srn
ltg
hrv
rue
amh
gla
bpy
orm
asm
egl
ang
olo
spa
hif
slk
tsn
lav
nso
deu
cat
pol
spa
mya
oci
ile
nso
glv
kom
bcl
spa
ina
hbs
orm
slk
ind
sna
bpy
mdf
map-bms
hak
glg
mwl
arg
nds-nl
pol
eng
gag
bel
isl
lez
dsb
pfl
nav
bcl
kin
slv
lin
udm
cdo
ell
ukr
sna
bar
ava
rup
spa
nrm
mhr
fry
urd
sna
pol
ibo
pam
zea
ton
pam
guj
dty
tat
vep
sin
ara
roh
ext
aym
min
ukr
jpn
srp
gle
new
hak
mkd
tat
fur
msa
nno
cos
ara
lrc
dan
che
swe
tam
pcd
srn
crh
cos
urd
swa
nld
gla
vol
kat
ita
stq
stq
kin
jpn
kat
als
cat
ava
snd
sqi
ces
rup
yid
mlg
lim
mar
mal
aze
stq
map-bms
ext
olo
pfl
mhr
sgs
che
bod
lrc
pnb
pfl
dty
ckb
kin
sgs
kin
tyv
tet
ext
roh
lrc
tsn
nso
fas
kor
tur
fur
bre
ces
bul
nds
vol
san
glg
dan
est
glk
fao
ces
mri
mon
nap
mkd
pcd
jpn
ton
dan
ltg
ltg
spa
yid
jbo
div
spa
lao
san
aym
tsn
sgs
nds
fur
kan
dan
ara
ara
eng
vep
hif
sin
lao
tyv
stq
isl
mar
khm
hrv
mkd
glk
orm
kat
sqi
afr
grn
bul
xmf
min
xmf
hye
mwl
stq
glg
lin
ksh
mar
gle
jbo
pan
glv
lez
vls
msa
sqi
pol
stq
kom
bjn
ceb
kbd
lad
snd
ukr
gla
vep
kin
bxr
aym
ace
kat
ile
min
xmf
wln
glk
hye
wln
mon
nrm
mai
tel
roa-tara
mdf
bpy
mdf
lav
tcy
ile
ton
div
hsb
kin
scn
srd
bel
tcy
rue
xho
bod
udm
mlg
lez
zea
vol
mai
dty
mlt
glv
cbk
tgl
oci
jpn
aym
ksh
fry
vls
pus
hsb
nrm
sin
bul
fao
aym
pol
sgs
pam
kor
mai
sna
bcl
fin
bar
tat
lim
ast
hak
ukr
mai
oss
ava
nrm
nno
pam
fao
mar
ukr
lrc
kbd
scn
nds
glk
rue
hsb
vls
por
asm
bel
che
eng
csb
nep
cor
tet
slv
kaz
cym
mri
xmf
frp
por
cos
ckb
xmf
oss
nno
rue
rup
tyv
ind
frp
mon
bar
mar
lav
gle
ace
pdc
fry
lrc
spa
deu
por
hbs
fur
rup
glv
nso
tet
fur
xho
snd
nno
nds-nl
krc
mdf
mai
ibo
isl
glg
fra
sin
srp
nap
dty
nan
lao
cdo
pus
deu
ile
grn
kbd
tam
lug
slv
lao
arg
ceb
koi
ceb
sco
sgs
mal
ton
cym
kat
deu
tat
ton
hin
lit
srn
tam
pap
be-tarask
hat
egl
fas
ast
stq
tam
bjn
que
jpn
ast
tur
ava
mkd
eus
cym
cor
hbs
ltg
bul
urd
lug
nan
zea
lat
bjn
jbo
lav
lez
vls
olo
guj
lrc
nan
swe
cos
war
lim
gag
sqi
ile
aym
nno
mdf
slk
bho
kbd
lat
cbk
dty
crh
dty
fin
scn
ara
eus
pam
nds-nl
ukr
als
egl
kat
roh
pcd
bel
bho
mdf
div
krc
cym
nav
tsn
lav
sgs
ckb
mar
hye
kom
nno
msa
mkd
glv
cym
ltg
srn
tet
jav
gle
hun
nno
que
slv
hif
grn
rus
fin
bul
vls
nep
ksh
pdc
cbk
bar
war
pan
guj
ext
fra
tcy
sna
tel
mkd
spa
nav
aym
gag
wln
swe
nob
ita
ori
nno
cym
kor
fry
mon
aze
sgs
amh
guj
lmo
glk
sqi
lim
por
ori
egl
gle
tat
mlg
fas
bjn
kan
vol
hin
gag
cym
ceb
ceb
udm
dan
nds-nl
gag
nrm
bod
grn
hsb
lmo
cor
swa
tet
asm
cdo
war
oss
ces
bel
kat
aym
urd
be-tarask
nob
hun
glk
cdo
ell
che
jbo
pam
mya
olo
lav
nep
fry
hun
ava
cym
fao
mlg
hbs
hrv
cbk
dty
ace
ori
aze
tha
fry
tyv
arg
dan
bpy
lrc
rue
ara
stq
roa-tara
fao
bel
lit
srd
khm
roa-tara
als
egl
guj
nld
por
lad
kom
cym
ace
gla
spa
bpy
scn
ile
hak
slv
bxr
bul
ava
nav
nob
rus
jav
ita
oci
ron
amh
mai
fas
ltg
kat
dsb
sna
nno
ckb
slk
myv
bel
epo
eng
glk
oss
nno
mlg
udm
mal
gle
mhr
bod
lim
min
mlt
ell
hrv
mlt
olo
glg
mon
urd
lug
rus
rue
cym
mdf
vls
tgl
nds
tyv
cbk
mhr
est
nds
frp
new
yid
hsb
nso
lad
udm
aym
glk
ron
tam
pan
hin
lug
cat
bre
aym
kbd
fao
wln
csb
lez
nob
nds
amh
san
ace
egl
kat
mkd
gag
olo
als
war
nep
bcl
pfl
tat
amh
glk
eng
bcl
ara
vie
yid
div
fur
tat
ckb
ces
pan
amh
glg
epo
cos
lit
mdf
bar
zea
lmo
tyv
tam
tgl
khm
glg
fao
que
urd
pus
nld
ori
nap
bho
gle
yid
lav
rus
nav
sqi
nld
fur
hbs
kbd
jpn
olo
div
san
cor
sin
mon
ori
fao
msa
cor
eus
pap
hun
tgl
pus
nno
fur
khm
hin
cym
pam
eng
nds-nl
tur
hbs
vie
hak
kat
por
tyv
hbs
hak
cat
isl
pus
olo
nld
hin
ile
min
mai
pdc
bar
arg
cdo
war
hak
cym
ava
nob
xmf
udm
srn
oss
ina
cym
nep
lmo
lim
srn
tat
frp
kaz
pap
hin
nso
mlt
tam
epo
egl
min
fur
ukr
oss
vol
hbs
bjn
hat
ksh
nap
hat
fra
grn
ceb
cor
mri
war
grn
jav
fao
pag
cor
ori
ton
rup
che
cos
pnb
mai
cat
mon
ltg
afr
cos
asm
mon
xmf
hsb
nld
glg
roa-tara
hun
glk
pam
glg
mai
isl
bar
stq
tam
war
krc
cor
mri
hat
fas
nrm
fao
als
pap
ckb
bod
crh
ron
hrv
lao
lat
rup
tel
tam
tat
lin
grn
isl
koi
pag
lav
nrm
new
che
lin
vls
jav
est
ukr
gle
lin
ton
map-bms
que
ara
map-bms
lug
hak
nds-nl
new
tat
tat
nso
est
mar
san
ceb
crh
kat
amh
stq
nso
ces
slv
nap
ara
bjn
rus
frp
nrm
sgs
asm
gag
vls
bod
bar
rus
cbk
new
dty
yid
mlt
sco
tgl
new
hye
kom
nav
min
hin
ara
jpn
sme
mya
ind
sna
aze
lez
ina
isl
bul
fas
lug
fra
arg
olo
nav
nav
tur
vol
kbd
oci
be-tarask
ksh
bho
bre
mhr
mlt
ibo
gle
fur
sin
pus
cat
ile
kor
kbd
ksh
ast
myv
afr
myv
pnb
tur
sme
scn
kat
sin
srp
vls
ces
ava
tsn
que
sna
bxr
oci
bcl
hbs
isl
glg
pam
nrm
deu
tha
ile
lug
aym
ceb
ang
nds
tgl
ces
cor
mai
uig
wln
map-bms
glv
pol
ext
srp
ukr
urd
orm
kbd
ace
hif
tyv
est
ara
pag
por
vol
vep
crh
ton
glv
mri
mon
kan
mai
jav
cym
jpn
pus
frp
por
mon
bxr
srn
nno
grn
mwl
mlg
pag
pan
pfl
srp
kat
rus
stq
div
new
map-bms
ita
vep
yid
msa
hrv
ltg
hsb
pnb
ckb
lit
amh
urd
egl
fin
egl
msa
hin
tcy
ava
ori
guj
grn
guj
asm
gag
glv
dan
ita
uig
war
lat
ksh
aym
sgs
ell
spa
nav
cor
tcy
cbk
bod
sqi
ina
grn
nrm
stq
bar
rup
ces
csb
aze
nob
be-tarask
arg
vls
ceb
ast
gla
scn
rus
ces
eus
lmo
ksh
ltg
egl
crh
nan
hif
hbs
epo
zea
fur
slk
pan
ibo
pam
ang
tha
lez
nds
vol
cat
pnb
glg
guj
swa
kin
min
jbo
roa-tara
lin
ell
ext
aym
lez
bcl
jav
be-tarask
jbo
kat
che
kom
eus
tsn
ceb
dsb
csb
cbk
bre
que
orm
nob
nld
mkd
lez
pol
srn
lug
tsn
dty
tet
sqi
tet
ace
ita
swe
nav
glk
sco
guj
mdf
snd
swe
snd
tat
myv
nep
srd
kat
ksh
bcl
bod
nds-nl
bpy
ltg
sin
kin
ile
bho
udm
san
ltg
san
gle
slv
pdc
sna
lez
fry
fra
ita
bod
jav
myv
ita
ckb
nno
msa
sqi
eng
mri
glg
mya
war
lat
urd
bho
sco
kor
mlg
isl
orm
frp
stq
cym
bel
cbk
rus
bre
cor
gag
tet
fry
che
bul
asm
pan
hun
rup
nrm
tam
tcy
que
ceb
ces
cat
tyv
bcl
hin
mlg
sqi
ang
lrc
gag
vls
ast
nav
bar
roh
lim
pdc
orm
cor
ibo
por
isl
urd
orm
vie
kan
yid
nds-nl
cat
kaz
glv
nan
csb
tyv
jbo
pdc
bpy
sgs
nds
roa-tara
grn
mya
mkd
bho
snd
aym
myv
cym
kan
nds
ukr
que
ell
war
ksh
slv
nld
ara
tet
kom
kaz
dsb
sgs
ace
lad
be-tarask
dty
rup
cos
snd
uig
mlg
mya
isl
gle
san
tat
be-tarask
cbk
bpy
ceb
asm
glk
mkd
nep
mwl
tyv
tet
bxr
snd
sme
ukr
cos
epo
ind
bho
cbk
pcd
pap
vls
sin
hrv
xmf
hbs
fas
ces
eus
ibo
jpn
lin
snd
deu
kat
mon
orm
aym
pcd
pfl
tel
rus
ast
pus
bxr
stq
dan
kan
kan
mon
zea
tat
ita
ast
msa
mkd
ina
slk
isl
jbo
bxr
frp
pam
ava
cos
wln
mkd
arg
pam
lat
ceb
lin
fur
est
swe
hsb
glk
mon
mlt
tet
mlt
lrc
xho
fra
cbk
ksh
mya
msa
fas
ces
glk
fao
kom
hrv
mon
fra
eus
deu
sin
sin
san
zea
pam
csb
jpn
gle
tha
grn
cat
gag
lin
bxr
vie
bcl
krc
vls
cat
gla
bar
ind
bre
mhr
urd
min
tha
afr
nrm
lao
snd
sin
lez
nds
mlg
cbk
sco
wln
hin
cor
hat
koi
tet
pap
ksh
lav
cym
aze
lug
kan
ext
lin
ukr
sgs
myv
cym
jpn
srp
cym
ace
san
fin
tet
scn
bod
ukr
tyv
cym
tcy
glv
mwl
bel
gag
rup
vep
nrm
fas
sin
mlt
epo
cor
stq
lim
slk
tgl
sna
ara
nan
koi
ckb
aym
lin
ron
mkd
ita
bxr
tgl
hye
be-tarask
tyv
rup
ava
mya
che
tha
asm
sqi
isl
swe
pam
nob
ina
khm
ltg
swe
mkd
fin
mhr
tyv
mar
pag
ara
wln
myv
mri
vol
mkd
hun
kaz
snd
fra
swa
glv
lao
xmf
ton
pol
hun
glv
kaz
lim
nap
nds
arg
rue
crh
stq
srn
ace
nav
ceb
bul
fur
fin
vls
deu
oci
dsb
pag
stq
slk
arg
mon
dsb
mdf
sqi
bar
tur
pnb
dsb
glg
hin
hsb
nno
ksh
ava
uig
ksh
mlg
bar
mar
lad
sco
koi
nav
lin
glg
aym
pam
vie
als
ile
tam
hif
rup
que
est
tel
mal
tur
ava
jav
oss
hbs
bpy
ces
bjn
fry
cbk
nrm
jav
fao
mon
mwl
oci
isl
spa
urd
hbs
ibo
hun
gag
swa
ace
que
lug
lit
cym
tcy
pfl
lat
war
bjn
tsn
lit
war
lav
hrv
ckb
cdo
rus
arg
ava
nav
wln
hun
sgs
ces
nav
tur
yid
srd
gag
be-tarask
war
kor
lrc
sna
nno
epo
lim
pnb
pnb
olo
war
lav
jav
nrm
gle
olo
grn
glv
pcd
kom
jav
lin
mon
epo
glg
ang
pol
snd
glv
gag
aze
mlt
pam
ibo
grn
hak
msa
lez
vep
asm
mkd
ori
lat
kor
ita
als
hif
roh
asm
orm
fry
fur
oss
dty
por
fry
deu
nob
yid
ron
glk
zea
ita
nds
ile
lad
nob
snd
ell
hrv
dan
pol
cbk
rue
sna
nrm
pam
que
mri
mon
div
srn
bho
pcd
pan
nav
kom
dty
kan
ina
tur
dty
egl
mkd
sgs
aze
tgl
lav
mlt
nso
tgl
hak
nap
asm
que
nrm
mon
cbk
slk
ori
als
frp
bjn
vie
tel
tcy
war
fao
snd
ang
srn
swa
ell
lit
lit
jpn
egl
pap
kor
ceb
lao
sna
tha
grn
tet
zea
fra
hbs
pan
kom
vls
guj
ell
ava
nds-nl
hat
nap
nso
ina
tam
oci
vol
krc
san
koi
sin
srd
amh
ind
hye
que
fry
nep
nno
ast
nob
ace
por
hak
sin
bpy
lao
cym
cos
eus
roa-tara
gag
hat
egl
lat
srp
gle
roa-tara
ang
cos
hbs
bjn
nds-nl
zea
vep
min
ell
crh
kom
mlg
scn
vol
lmo
tha
bel
tha
sna
tha
bcl
urd
krc
ava
olo
min
ces
pam
nob
nan
pfl
grn
krc
isl
kbd
pan
slv
kat
sin
glv
vep
war
est
lad
srd
lrc
mkd
dty
nds
nav
tur
swa
pnb
ell
tel
tel
oci
xho
lit
nds
roh
ori
dsb
lad
hbs
fur
ukr
mwl
lat
tgl
tel
deu
vol
fas
bar
ckb
cdo
glk
ron
new
crh
lit
hak
pus
pam
kom
pnb
vol
san
lim
bre
fry
bho
dty
ron
tur
hun
slk
fra
rue
mhr
sna
tam
asm
vie
new
mhr
xho
aze
ton
ast
ext
map-bms
nep
min
kan
fur
ina
bar
cat
vie
bul
bxr
nap
bar
fur
bod
lav
hif
pap
kbd
pol
afr
mri
scn
fry
cdo
deu
pap
pnb
eng
hye
sco
vol
pdc
ces
ckb
oci
hbs
hsb
tcy
kin
ukr
bul
sna
nds-nl
sin
srp
nav
lao
xmf
lrc
mkd
deu
tha
rue
rue
rup
dsb
pdc
lug
pam
gla
epo
mdf
oss
stq
cor
nrm
pdc
zea
sna
amh
kin
lin
xho
myv
bpy
uig
slk
jbo
bod
ile
spa
cos
lit
tet
sco
por
pam
udm
mlt
swa
ori
lin
rus
eus
hye
zea
mlt
als
nep
csb
pol
aze
sgs
vie
bho
pus
bul
tel
swe
lao
snd
isl
yid
fas
ace
new
mwl
nds
kbd
olo
eng
ukr
kin
hsb
mkd
nap
ltg
bul
orm
tam
slv
jav
vie
be-tarask
mon
csb
fao
cor
tel
nso
ile
rus
aze
bho
myv
cdo
tel
orm
tcy
ukr
por
pam
mri
afr
ori
nld
dty
hye
mkd
lrc
ell
fur
ell
oss
que
hak
frp
hye
ron
xho
arg
nno
glk
hsb
tha
pfl
vls
mon
dan
eus
nrm
div
crh
olo
afr
bxr
pfl
be-tarask
msa
san
srp
nob
tet
kat
ckb
tha
mai
ceb
lmo
deu
nap
kan
hin
ukr
vep
ori
gag
mhr
roh
nap
orm
cdo
hat
cym
tat
min
vie
dty
cbk
eus
min
ext
cbk
als
lav
pan
bjn
ton
glk
war
div
tgl
hrv
ang
pdc
lit
lao
ace
cym
bcl
tam
eng
pap
roh
war
bjn
sin
xho
ceb
ibo
stq
bxr
ast
epo
pcd
san
gle
bel
yid
sqi
guj
csb
jav
pol
fao
srd
rue
tet
ast
ara
cdo
por
glk
lug
rue
ace
nld
lav
ita
eus
nds
mal
ibo
lin
lrc
fur
fao
hsb
ind
lit
crh
kom
aym
sqi
kaz
khm
tgl
nan
eus
snd
bho
lad
snd
roa-tara
afr
fry
guj
mlg
pap
san
dan
lat
aym
kom
ina
oci
lug
pcd
bjn
cdo
hbs
glv
mri
gla
oci
jbo
fry
mlg
fry
srd
deu
myv
div
mwl
srp
fry
gle
bjn
srd
spa
mai
que
sco
mkd
kat
fin
fas
swe
pap
kom
rup
srd
vol
jav
lad
bar
jpn
tcy
che
koi
hif
oci
asm
mar
glk
ita
ell
amh
fao
pcd
ron
sqi
guj
nrm
ltg
hif
mai
hif
cym
eus
tgl
grn
ckb
srp
mdf
sqi
nds
sin
ceb
stq
mya
mar
est
tha
mlg
nld
lav
vol
bul
tet
cbk
hat
pnb
jpn
tha
afr
ita
srp
kaz
tgl
ces
map-bms
min
pfl
mri
pfl
est
cdo
mlg
hbs
nav
ibo
cym
hsb
est
glk
rup
jpn
ava
frp
snd
kat
pap
mya
lez
orm
bjn
deu
pap
pdc
nan
eng
egl
lim
nso
aze
bre
nso
be-tarask
bre
sgs
bho
new
nld
myv
yid
ltg
dsb
pag
slk
ext
mkd
gle
nds-nl
bcl
gle
hye
glk
pdc
orm
bpy
pfl
tam
pam
tsn
lao
mal
lrc
roa-tara
als
lug
gle
kan
deu
egl
glk
nav
slv
roa-tara
slk
ori
uig
lug
bel
tsn
mhr
kan
mai
lit
pam
ckb
pnb
olo
wln
hbs
hak
ava
hun
hbs
fry
be-tarask
nap
swa
mya
lmo
stq
ara
pag
tyv
nso
slk
war
kom
ori
lin
jav
tel
yid
glv
kaz
lrc
mai
mya
tur
mal
mar
hsb
fra
ast
rus
min
cdo
ron
koi
krc
sna
ang
urd
egl
isl
nso
que
hif
swa
bjn
tel
yid
bjn
tat
mri
lrc
rue
fry
dan
mri
frp
lad
nno
mhr
csb
war
cbk
ukr
jbo
cor
lat
als
ori
tyv
ceb
guj
mar
guj
krc
asm
myv
tsn
mri
lug
new
lat
fur
ile
bho
kin
aze
tet
nds
lmo
hun
ext
guj
fas
cor
roh
pan
mai
pfl
tet
ces
war
kat
kan
gla
jbo
yid
fry
nrm
lao
aze
ton
nds-nl
jpn
sme
udm
mkd
tam
tat
war
nan
tat
ava
sme
gla
vol
pnb
nds-nl
bxr
ile
pus
oss
bcl
map-bms
ton
pus
ara
lug
mdf
mlt
scn
mkd
deu
snd
fra
est
cbk
deu
guj
afr
lim
pus
gla
ton
ton
lat
pap
nld
lav
bre
vie
hif
kom
cbk
dan
mkd
olo
tet
che
tam
glk
kan
mar
bar
tha
map-bms
new
eng
lin
che
est
ckb
eng
nav
fin
hrv
lmo
srp
nrm
ast
stq
por
min
lav
mwl
nan
kan
orm
frp
lrc
map-bms
cor
tur
gag
gag
xho
tyv
ina
ara
fas
rus
eng
lin
bho
tam
lug
pdc
nan
tyv
rup
pnb
lrc
hif
div
nob
tur
egl
bjn
san
ina
lrc
cos
cym
mya
tat
min
kin
roh
dsb
nap
lim
fur
ina
oss
nno
min
deu
san
pap
pdc
que
pol
eng
kan
roh
hif
div
pol
mon
deu
gla
pap
hrv
vol
hin
por
ang
mdf
ceb
hin
cdo
ibo
cor
nan
sqi
pam
tur
ile
swe
hrv
deu
srp
fry
nno
guj
xho
ukr
tha
slv
xho
kat
ltg
srp
grn
ces
nep
arg
ext
bho
ang
lrc
ang
mri
mwl
pag
mdf
new
cdo
bod
lav
fin
ltg
csb
tha
sna
hin
eng
san
lav
pap
tur
tyv
ckb
tam
ita
cbk
nav
lav
kaz
mai
ind
kbd
kaz
ita
pnb
pnb
nan
epo
mya
ksh
lug
pdc
ava
ita
spa
myv
vls
csb
ace
bar
aze
urd
swa
ibo
bod
crh
pap
che
cym
sqi
ltg
tur
lug
lug
bul
ind
xho
lim
hin
hye
hun
lat
lad
orm
mwl
tgl
bpy
spa
mlt
hye
lrc
uig
grn
tcy
spa
nds
kbd
nan
xho
ell
tam
mai
nso
afr
pam
guj
lad
bjn
glk
new
map-bms
lit
nrm
bul
ibo
tsn
lrc
mhr
mri
ori
xmf
mkd
pan
lez
zea
nob
uig
ton
aze
ile
cym
lim
div
ksh
sgs
lug
cor
pdc
war
bcl
sqi
arg
gag
ara
uig
guj
cdo
rus
che
gag
hun
tha
bxr
urd
urd
bcl
tsn
ckb
fas
spa
mai
sme
asm
khm
ava
deu
stq
sin
hrv
ile
cym
bel
lad
jpn
grn
pus
tgl
nav
hin
map-bms
glk
roh
tam
san
lit
nso
tet
mri
vls
ceb
ace
tsn
ast
bul
lim
hbs
ron
lim
vep
mon
rus
nld
san
olo
lit
ell
lrc
ile
csb
sco
sin
hak
nav
lav
lrc
kom
hif
mlt
mri
new
mhr
kbd
msa
sqi
hin
vol
srp
pus
lin
gla
tgl
amh
cor
lao
gag
fra
orm
bcl
asm
hbs
lat
arg
dsb
jbo
wln
ina
nav
ina
war
crh
ton
oss
grn
tam
mri
dty
gag
afr
kin
oss
cdo
cbk
nav
fao
kom
bho
srn
nep
tur
mdf
mon
lmo
ita
pan
nob
pfl
tel
ext
srn
hun
bxr
ile
cym
div
pan
tcy
bjn
ava
lav
slk
fas
san
che
dty
pus
hun
mdf
uig
kom
slv
nan
nrm
gla
tam
pfl
mal
lez
eus
cor
hsb
snd
sin
min
jav
map-bms
por
jpn
cym
ori
lim
vep
nds
mon
roh
bxr
tur
kin
tam
ori
ita
map-bms
ext
ina
be-tarask
ara
bul
swe
spa
nds-nl
hif
lrc
ind
fas
nob
ara
ita
ceb
swe
mhr
pap
kaz
slv
ksh
pam
bpy
fry
roa-tara
lat
div
sco
bpy
orm
bjn
nso
jav
vie
tha
sna
mri
olo
dsb
guj
urd
lav
jav
gag
arg
msa
lug
jbo
mar
bod
msa
jav
asm
nld
roa-tara
kan
nso
lao
tet
sin
sin
lin
bar
zea
scn
mri
war
ace
tha
sna
mai
cos
lrc
new
vie
jav
nav
bcl
fin
pcd
xho
roa-tara
mkd
pdc
fas
asm
zea
fur
tel
pdc
pcd
nav
nep
glv
aze
frp
lao
lim
urd
msa
sqi
dan
fra
mya
new
fas
mar
rue
nds-nl
ckb
koi
roh
urd
srp
mal
hif
bho
hin
lav
fin
ibo
nrm
lin
tsn
tyv
hin
isl
pap
fas
fao
koi
fur
dan
udm
oci
ast
csb
cbk
eus
mya
min
crh
srp
dan
por
hye
lez
hye
ibo
urd
ori
bre
tam
snd
xmf
hye
dsb
epo
ind
ukr
est
que
cym
jpn
ext
olo
mai
ltg
lav
aze
crh
ang
gle
sme
stq
div
ces
kor
wln
frp
pap
cos
jav
slk
srd
rue
hye
kat
hin
bar
kat
oss
bcl
wln
dty
vie
mdf
bcl
tcy
pcd
lim
msa
glv
fur
lrc
udm
est
lez
eng
roa-tara
hak
mal
ceb
ile
gag
lav
sgs
dty
fur
cos
crh
tsn
nds
tsn
cym
hye
lmo
ltg
nrm
bjn
sco
hsb
grn
lrc
bar
ext
koi
tel
koi
stq
grn
rue
ron
olo
sgs
min
wln
glv
kan
hye
rup
nso
tsn
rue
bod
mar
udm
kor
bod
tha
slk
glv
glv
fao
hsb
kat
srn
olo
uig
vep
ast
lit
kan
bre
roa-tara
fas
lat
min
tgl
pap
cor
que
new
hbs
ron
mkd
khm
ind
bod
rue
ava
por
myv
kaz
sco
lin
ltg
pfl
fas
eng
mri
sqi
srd
mlg
zea
tyv
spa
bjn
nap
frp
pnb
srd
nno
hsb
tha
sna
ell
zea
ibo
fin
epo
cor
cbk
hrv
lez
tam
por
mar
glg
als
ukr
nob
ori
hrv
lit
mal
wln
aze
srd
gag
che
lat
glg
est
bul
fas
hye
lao
jav
tyv
ang
lao
nrm
srn
bxr
ina
tsn
pam
cor
lim
vie
cym
new
sna
mya
kor
egl
nob
hsb
tam
ell
min
asm
mwl
guj
lug
mar
kaz
ton
uig
lrc
xho
bre
krc
mlt
lit
sco
myv
afr
hbs
ceb
hsb
udm
nds
xmf
lat
pap
msa
pam
swe
lrc
mlt
lin
frp
mri
ind
ceb
cbk
slv
lao
dty
bul
nds-nl
nrm
vls
dty
ckb
bpy
hun
che
nld
cdo
msa
hsb
nav
lim
ina
arg
myv
nds
gla
lim
nap
sgs
arg
sgs
ton
ksh
nds-nl
pol
srd
bod
lmo
sme
khm
csb
nld
kor
wln
ace
kin
ava
oss
nds-nl
jbo
frp
rue
krc
hif
mri
lad
sco
fas
san
dsb
hak
ton
cbk
ton
lmo
bar
egl
nrm
arg
new
nan
tet
xho
kin
swe
por
eng
slv
nan
mon
stq
kaz
glg
jbo
swe
tel
yid
bre
pus
pus
rus
ukr
div
sqi
sna
mkd
cos
frp
orm
ibo
deu
mai
nno
sco
uig
oci
swa
sna
jpn
ara
oci
fur
bpy
rus
vls
fas
sme
mar
pan
bjn
kat
crh
be-tarask
guj
glv
nds-nl
pan
hat
bho
nep
ang
yid
ron
pan
cdo
tat
ara
lin
bel
tgl
ava
oci
uig
eus
tam
hbs
mya
aze
fao
be-tarask
xmf
roa-tara
bod
hye
ang
hbs
wln
fra
cos
swa
map-bms
olo
zea
hrv
sgs
udm
sqi
pus
grn
stq
cos
rus
jav
sme
pam
amh
pus
mri
lav
ang
min
xho
ckb
nds
fry
tat
mdf
khm
kan
snd
als
hye
scn
nrm
tha
ext
glk
ori
mal
kan
nav
tgl
mkd
snd
xmf
pdc
krc
jav
pfl
che
lat
ces
vep
sna
swe
orm
egl
ibo
div
lmo
pol
fin
lad
fao
tgl
urd
pcd
lav
vol
vls
mya
koi
vep
ron
nob
hrv
pfl
gla
aym
jav
urd
sme
fry
sin
pag
sna
gag
bpy
slv
lin
nob
ina
sin
ces
zea
bul
vls
amh
lez
ast
fur
ina
kaz
tyv
fra
arg
tcy
kaz
fur
oci
egl
ltg
hsb
sna
gag
cat
ori
xho
ara
frp
rus
lit
isl
cat
glk
mai
frp
aym
rup
spa
spa
oss
uig
ang
hsb
ces
vol
nno
mlg
mlt
vie
mya
que
cbk
ces
cos
cos
ton
hak
kaz
kor
tam
bjn
cos
als
swa
nan
srd
ita
est
mal
mlg
war
tet
rus
jpn
ibo
kat
myv
bel
grn
uig
pfl
vie
hak
cbk
jav
rue
lin
que
tet
orm
ton
yid
dsb
hsb
xho
nld
roh
sqi
san
bar
fin
div
hsb
nob
srn
khm
cbk
aym
pus
hak
swa
ace
tgl
ile
roh
ceb
glv
scn
kan
ori
guj
stq
nds-nl
tsn
hrv
udm
wln
rup
eng
ace
arg
roh
mai
scn
hif
bod
tcy
san
ita
mhr
kbd
bel
pcd
eng
ron
lat
lug
scn
rup
pam
snd
ori
lim
udm
xho
cos
tel
sgs
deu
slv
vie
glv
guj
vls
tha
war
bjn
afr
lug
udm
nan
lim
gle
kat
glv
lug
myv
slv
vep
guj
est
slv
gle
jpn
oci
war
tcy
srn
srd
myv
roh
fur
srp
crh
aze
lez
tgl
kor
snd
mwl
tet
sco
eus
tha
cor
uig
mkd
aze
gag
tcy
cbk
bar
orm
udm
san
yid
che
fin
tet
tam
lat
fao
ksh
scn
ori
nds
gle
ava
mai
bpy
wln
nno
rus
mlg
ron
hak
nds
cym
fin
oss
urd
tcy
kom
nob
tat
khm
lug
ton
tur
mai
yid
new
mal
nno
gle
ron
gag
map-bms
roa-tara
roh
gle
yid
tyv
pan
lat
dan
mlt
san
fry
krc
mlg
pus
olo
san
lao
dan
hat
glg
ext
crh
sna
tha
bxr
lmo
lin
fin
snd
msa
ibo
wln
fry
lit
yid
fra
cbk
tam
pfl
kan
guj
lez
mdf
tat
mon
bre
hif
pan
kin
ukr
bre
ell
zea
nan
mri
arg
bel
oss
ace
ile
bel
mya
xho
srd
pdc
bul
hun
wln
bxr
tgl
hye
lim
myv
dsb
roa-tara
kin
nav
srd
afr
stq
tet
gle
jpn
mlt
lat
glk
fra
rue
por
map-bms
nds
msa
pag
cbk
que
nob
glv
fas
hye
eng
ita
udm
guj
por
udm
yid
nob
fin
asm
bod
dan
pam
asm
fao
lav
cbk
sin
fra
hye
swa
sna
ava
vie
vep
sgs
mkd
bre
rus
eus
bul
zea
bel
bcl
sco
ibo
tat
roh
ava
ext
grn
bxr
lao
mhr
swe
afr
ava
hye
sme
kaz
dsb
ceb
hat
cym
asm
afr
crh
swa
amh
zea
nep
pus
bxr
pnb
gla
lmo
asm
hat
pam
eng
tur
san
ron
amh
lao
myv
crh
ast
mlt
bel
ara
dan
mlt
gla
udm
oci
dty
frp
jbo
mri
est
myv
sme
vol
jpn
fra
krc
jpn
lin
mon
ceb
jav
roh
bre
pap
slv
sgs
min
ton
ile
mdf
tet
kor
fao
hin
bcl
swa
che
war
srn
pcd
tat
mal
vls
xho
bar
eng
bel
dan
mwl
sin
sme
kan
nan
ita
hif
mhr
roa-tara
aym
pdc
sna
tyv
por
kom
cym
myv
nep
pam
mon
tha
guj
kaz
guj
hin
amh
ceb
jpn
ace
pam
mlg
mya
gag
fry
tcy
asm
yid
afr
glv
oci
ksh
tet
isl
pol
glv
epo
ckb
hbs
aym
deu
zea
nrm
ind
frp
mai
oci
rus
orm
nan
nep
bul
div
nds
lat
myv
lmo
guj
arg
msa
slv
lit
lez
nld
ava
myv
mlt
ton
nav
grn
epo
ara
koi
eus
tsn
jbo
mwl
bod
cat
hun
pfl
kbd
bod
xmf
lao
arg
kor
wln
mri
hun
jav
sna
lad
hrv
nno
kbd
uig
ina
nob
lrc
fra
glg
sco
nld
ces
fry
pap
yid
div
lao
oss
deu
kor
rue
pus
hbs
hsb
lez
kin
kbd
tur
ibo
que
bho
ces
pol
fas
tha
rup
fin
fur
ceb
bho
bjn
gag
ind
sgs
lim
frp
slv
lmo
sin
snd
roh
roa-tara
ell
stq
epo
myv
nds
ukr
gag
lug
ibo
zea
fur
ind
jbo
hye
ara
stq
cdo
ara
sin
grn
ita
hin
est
nep
gle
sme
khm
sin
snd
nob
oci
vie
urd
rus
sin
ast
oss
new
div
new
tha
sco
mai
pag
mkd
mya
jpn
arg
vls
srp
mhr
kaz
tet
mwl
min
lad
srp
mri
be-tarask
ina
lit
stq
map-bms
dsb
isl
swe
tet
tyv
ita
aze
ces
rue
yid
ton
sme
snd
bpy
eng
dan
cos
hin
sqi
cos
oci
nap
ina
hun
cat
ava
nds
mhr
por
tet
ksh
ibo
glk
hrv
ava
roa-tara
hrv
wln
ceb
sco
urd
gle
ace
san
mlt
nld
ava
swe
cos
glk
bod
nrm
srd
kin
afr
lmo
lim
swe
kor
fur
bul
lat
pol
sqi
yid
bar
ara
khm
hrv
bod
lmo
jpn
mon
lav
tgl
amh
pdc
mkd
afr
mdf
glk
gla
mri
grn
tha
arg
hin
che
rue
spa
lin
sco
jbo
cor
lit
bho
nav
ina
egl
new
tam
ron
map-bms
mdf
san
tyv
tur
afr
ton
vep
fao
tsn
vie
lav
uig
mhr
tcy
tam
mai
als
dsb
xmf
bre
gag
lim
bre
fao
ell
fao
fin
bpy
bpy
sco
khm
pdc
war
mhr
pan
mhr
mar
bcl
egl
wln
ukr
mlt
cor
cos
bar
nrm
tam
ile
tel
ava
aze
krc
xho
uig
gle
ind
ibo
mkd
bxr
yid
nds-nl
ast
tsn
ina
dsb
rus
orm
mdf
egl
lav
fra
mal
sco
mlt
lez
glv
sqi
udm
bar
orm
fry
khm
bel
mlt
sco
lmo
ell
mon
hak
cym
ita
war
nrm
fra
pag
lrc
hif
fry
fry
mai
pdc
bcl
ukr
kin
san
gle
que
ind
lit
udm
orm
roa-tara
fur
kat
mwl
ile
war
myv
mal
nep
hye
tel
pan
ina
slv
mwl
krc
mai
swa
bod
pfl
aym
hrv
hif
hak
kan
mar
khm
bpy
cor
roa-tara
mal
mwl
bpy
frp
tgl
amh
div
be-tarask
tyv
oci
vie
fas
arg
khm
tcy
war
ckb
eng
srn
hrv
kbd
ile
fin
dan
pag
jav
kin
ckb
glg
tgl
mai
div
fry
gla
sin
lao
tat
map-bms
aym
srp
kan
rus
mai
hun
srd
lav
nav
vls
jpn
war
bul
grn
san
pag
snd
swe
tha
pnb
oss
gla
kat
ext
tet
amh
mhr
sin
pam
msa
als
che
roh
nno
tha
lat
fas
pus
asm
cat
new
cor
lim
tet
tet
vep
swe
urd
sqi
vls
tur
lez
tgl
rup
orm
kan
pus
udm
sna
mhr
mhr
che
mon
rue
khm
vep
tat
aze
kin
wln
tsn
fin
lmo
srn
pus
nob
srd
map-bms
gla
bul
che
cbk
lin
koi
msa
sco
cor
nds-nl
swa
xho
tyv
ast
mkd
hak
hat
vls
fra
ukr
urd
fra
slv
bod
aym
sme
mlg
gag
sgs
ton
oci
bxr
eng
uig
vep
kor
nds
mkd
amh
snd
bod
mwl
isl
mkd
ang
pcd
ces
koi
srp
srp
kan
oss
aym
san
glv
bxr
olo
pan
glv
sco
jbo
olo
tet
ace
war
jbo
tgl
frp
ara
als
ltg
zea
sco
sqi
frp
sco
bjn
eng
vep
sna
tat
pdc
kaz
mai
ces
swe
mai
nap
tat
gag
pnb
roh
san
ltg
glg
nno
bcl
sme
kbd
jbo
sco
map-bms
ina
nld
hak
cbk
ara
tcy
bod
cat
nno
lin
zea
tha
scn
kin
fra
bxr
kaz
hat
khm
pdc
gag
tha
bel
pam
srd
nld
orm
bcl
tcy
guj
urd
csb
csb
khm
cdo
bcl
asm
pus
hat
mai
pap
csb
csb
ceb
kaz
snd
hif
ltg
khm
eng
snd
pan
hat
nds
pfl
olo
mhr
koi
crh
eng
min
div
roa-tara
cor
ile
mdf
fur
swa
sme
fra
kaz
lad
pcd
egl
tha
hrv
map-bms
mwl
srd
be-tarask
mri
vie
arg
nds
slk
mar
bar
arg
kor
mal
lim
ori
ang
myv
map-bms
mai
ces
nap
vls
jpn
ast
lim
bjn
ukr
eng
nds-nl
csb
ckb
srd
glk
bxr
guj
ina
oci
hat
fra
uig
lrc
xmf
fry
ara
amh
kaz
nds-nl
pnb
crh
kat
mwl
roh
uig
hin
kbd
div
fin
min
nds-nl
lad
bpy
dsb
uig
vls
mai
san
afr
cos
ces
div
hif
deu
zea
div
yid
mdf
war
msa
vie
nav
pap
hin
nob
csb
gag
sme
glk
ckb
srp
bre
hat
glg
hak
swa
lat
arg
lad
ksh
rus
cbk
ckb
spa
ell
srp
jav
srd
epo
kaz
hye
nav
ava
frp
bho
rue
fin
ind
cbk
ton
msa
oci
mlt
orm
bjn
gla
cat
cdo
urd
crh
gag
ltg
tha
fra
glg
fin
tur
eng
mal
dan
sgs
war
ceb
hsb
pfl
jbo
tgl
pcd
guj
che
mon
lad
eng
lao
glv
krc
hbs
vol
new
tcy
pag
ell
vep
hbs
jbo
sco
sin
crh
mya
ind
hbs
tel
jpn
kbd
cat
stq
gle
sco
ceb
lim
sna
glg
rup
vls
war
urd
nob
pdc
vie
cor
udm
cbk
cor
gla
mhr
nld
kaz
ces
mai
slk
mwl
ace
amh
guj
mri
mya
udm
vol
que
fin
scn
pol
oss
pan
kbd
mri
cdo
nso
ind
nds-nl
ell
mya
uig
pap
zea
csb
cdo
kom
lug
lit
udm
ori
tur
ell
tgl
kan
ces
nep
mlt
ang
lim
stq
slk
oss
mar
swe
rue
tcy
cbk
dsb
ara
rup
fas
bxr
nob
dan
ksh
als
fry
gle
isl
rus
swe
mon
dan
rup
gag
kaz
krc
epo
ron
tgl
pap
afr
ibo
fur
ava
tur
mlg
nan
jbo
pfl
nan
amh
mhr
srn
ina
ita
mlg
lug
ron
mdf
vep
cor
ang
ckb
srp
mhr
eus
be-tarask
tat
eng
ina
afr
mkd
zea
kat
pol
csb
fas
swe
als
lug
ina
tet
cym
ori
nap
kat
glv
egl
kaz
mai
ile
amh
vie
kaz
mai
cat
aze
kor
sna
eus
oci
div
ast
hat
lav
min
pol
mlg
nav
als
tcy
sna
dty
kbd
ksh
nds
nno
mya
ckb
kor
fra
hin
kaz
arg
uig
orm
roh
ava
aym
lmo
kat
lrc
msa
bar
fry
san
ara
sme
cbk
ara
hye
kom
por
guj
sme
cat
mal
new
csb
ton
hin
cym
deu
eng
deu
ori
slv
bpy
jav
lrc
bul
nso
zea
mai
pnb
nav
tet
srn
cdo
ava
olo
lim
nrm
roh
hin
csb
cym
nno
bre
kin
gag
khm
srn
lim
mlt
glv
fur
crh
ile
ita
tur
lat
cym
ceb
rue
ast
mkd
ile
sqi
glk
bpy
tsn
pol
hat
hbs
swe
pnb
ton
deu
jbo
mwl
hak
ltg
bre
mai
tur
kaz
lav
yid
lin
slk
cor
bre
vol
fin
dsb
orm
nep
cos
egl
bjn
kat
egl
pdc
afr
hif
ang
che
sin
cdo
ara
rup
kbd
rue
lmo
ava
ksh
lat
div
tgl
glg
pdc
ace
ita
arg
oss
tet
yid
lmo
bxr
ava
tat
nob
tam
ace
vie
dsb
arg
lim
ind
khm
lav
mlg
slv
vie
bel
bjn
nap
mdf
krc
koi
nds-nl
nld
hbs
mkd
cdo
myv
aym
pap
ces
cym
tgl
ron
nob
bod
sin
nno
eus
kom
jav
rue
por
nan
ind
est
mlt
lad
hbs
ara
ile
lez
isl
crh
sco
pan
mya
war
lmo
nrm
swa
pdc
lao
als
ind
ibo
glg
srp
ind
nno
swe
pus
bxr
srd
nld
bre
isl
ori
bod
oss
hak
nld
ita
arg
pdc
nan
min
ron
oss
mya
cym
kor
srp
yid
lav
nob
bcl
lez
ell
lrc
krc
mwl
orm
ile
kan
tur
mkd
tel
nld
fas
cym
che
lug
crh
ukr
glv
tat
cym
mai
nso
als
gla
lao
khm
vie
lad
que
hun
mal
srn
lmo
crh
tam
ckb
kin
fry
aze
cos
lad
hye
ces
tat
hsb
be-tarask
frp
bar
kin
arg
orm
lim
sqi
mlg
egl
lat
rus
fur
slv
jpn
kat
ces
fra
nav
ita
ace
mlg
deu
tcy
ast
glv
sna
egl
sna
ina
ita
nan
ckb
san
bho
tgl
bxr
ina
nno
fao
hbs
kan
kan
bcl
mlg
bxr
csb
slv
pam
ind
che
mya
oss
mar
cym
xho
fry
hat
mlg
mar
dan
mar
olo
hak
tet
ile
tgl
nso
hsb
tcy
nep
rup
dty
nno
sqi
bre
ton
xmf
bjn
slv
aze
khm
ara
ind
pfl
pol
kom
xho
tam
jbo
lrc
hsb
fry
ces
swa
koi
vie
grn
kaz
nap
por
olo
bcl
bxr
pag
tyv
bcl
fin
wln
ori
vie
ori
zea
kaz
dty
egl
lat
fra
kom
bar
che
war
ukr
eus
oss
hat
ara
zea
lad
oss
tel
cat
bjn
mdf
lat
spa
be-tarask
isl
ibo
cor
ita
sna
nno
nan
lmo
hif
pan
tha
lao
be-tarask
mon
bpy
fra
vol
nso
xho
tel
mri
war
tha
roh
cos
ita
koi
div
als
war
pap
kin
swa
hat
lao
bho
afr
stq
hak
egl
asm
est
lim
mya
vep
asm
be-tarask
spa
pfl
ang
hif
nan
frp
ast
kaz
bho
eus
nso
msa
ina
ceb
nno
gag
arg
snd
asm
pnb
swe
nld
fao
bod
ast
eus
ltg
hye
dty
che
vie
myv
mkd
koi
afr
roh
sna
ori
ast
fas
lao
mlt
eus
ell
fur
nno
lez
tam
hak
eus
mhr
bpy
gag
wln
sqi
dsb
bjn
ukr
kin
dan
bre
cor
rue
pcd
nds-nl
ukr
frp
nep
ron
ind
tyv
bul
ara
olo
oss
div
che
amh
urd
hun
ita
yid
wln
myv
tur
aym
ile
myv
por
bod
vls
vls
arg
eng
vep
ibo
pdc
min
pnb
afr
hif
hrv
ext
dsb
bar
bel
kat
pcd
sme
rus
gla
kor
slv
ell
kom
fra
tur
snd
cym
udm
glk
mar
egl
egl
fra
map-bms
ile
kin
kor
bre
bho
cor
nrm
scn
kan
cor
tat
arg
als
dsb
slk
ukr
new
urd
gle
nds-nl
koi
vep
kor
nds-nl
mar
ukr
bho
bjn
nso
hrv
tcy
lad
lit
ukr
lug
por
ltg
roa-tara
bel
gag
pnb
slk
tel
oci
kat
hbs
lim
oci
mar
scn
udm
dan
mal
kaz
tam
por
ori
lim
jbo
bod
wln
kom
ibo
slk
wln
nan
rue
jbo
jbo
ksh
fas
lad
tam
amh
pcd
tyv
rus
sna
hsb
hrv
nan
cat
sna
be-tarask
oci
cdo
tam
xho
lim
vls
pnb
jpn
pcd
ton
srp
als
pdc
nld
khm
lao
sna
lrc
jbo
pdc
ori
ang
sco
ori
nld
tsn
zea
ile
ast
fas
kom
bel
mwl
mdf
gag
amh
orm
lrc
hif
ron
hsb
als
lrc
mlt
hin
amh
afr
hbs
mlg
min
sin
nap
tyv
mai
olo
vie
sme
war
vep
gle
arg
sgs
yid
ita
tsn
ceb
gag
fas
sgs
myv
nav
pdc
guj
csb
pcd
lrc
mhr
min
mlg
lit
hun
ori
srp
fin
pan
sme
fas
pnb
mlt
nav
fin
bcl
glg
ksh
mar
cdo
crh
glv
nds-nl
swe
grn
nob
pfl
fur
bxr
mkd
hat
min
nrm
tur
nno
wln
ind
lim
sin
pus
uig
pnb
hin
pam
deu
ces
pnb
pag
por
bcl
krc
tsn
nap
bjn
tet
hak
bel
ava
glk
lrc
pag
grn
tel
sna
cat
slv
zea
lez
koi
bxr
sin
uig
ava
min
nso
pan
nno
hif
aze
ara
swe
jpn
kom
swa
crh
amh
nld
xmf
gla
lao
hsb
wln
udm
ori
mlg
nep
nep
cat
bpy
udm
tsn
bjn
glg
msa
bar
sqi
ast
srp
koi
guj
nld
por
grn
mhr
nap
nld
lez
srn
nld
ksh
mlg
msa
spa
nds-nl
frp
fin
roa-tara
lit
mri
dty
ksh
san
kan
vie
msa
fur
xho
nav
sqi
mhr
pam
mar
nep
kor
kan
tha
ton
jbo
deu
lin
nan
hin
egl
nno
bho
pnb
lin
lrc
frp
rue
rus
dan
san
fao
mwl
cdo
udm
mdf
orm
tam
ace
glk
mri
kom
vep
fry
tsn
ori
grn
hrv
bre
eus
pnb
oci
deu
khm
ron
bul
yid
mal
kaz
ukr
pan
oci
bel
kin
hrv
nso
vep
que
isl
nob
ltg
pam
tet
map-bms
afr
lit
pol
min
jav
est
bho
mon
nap
mri
be-tarask
asm
che
che
mdf
lat
hak
ast
glv
frp
snd
cos
khm
jpn
afr
pcd
ara
tha
new
ast
nep
amh
pnb
tgl
tet
fin
bre
div
bcl
kor
bre
jav
nld
kin
nan
eus
isl
arg
vls
ibo
eus
kan
fur
fra
arg
bel
mhr
div
cat
lav
jpn
pam
eus
min
eng
nrm
nso
hye
hye
zea
dan
olo
dsb
ltg
swe
arg
mwl
nld
pfl
mai
rus
mlt
eus
ceb
gle
hat
cor
lit
pan
min
mri
vep
mya
tat
bcl
hun
fin
sco
orm
frp
map-bms
jav
glv
ckb
swa
pus
epo
xho
pfl
bel
zea
orm
gle
bar
srd
est
kin
amh
bar
mwl
gla
ell
sqi
tyv
grn
div
myv
ron
tet
tsn
tgl
deu
tat
lim
mwl
dan
hat
hun
new
crh
rup
ext
nob
als
guj
rue
sgs
ltg
gle
ori
mal
srd
lug
por
lin
fao
sgs
roh
bjn
jbo
kin
hsb
bod
bre
sco
kbd
tha
scn
hbs
ceb
sme
bar
nds-nl
cos
che
hif
tet
pan
cat
gla
vls
tat
ton
aym
ara
est
roh
hbs
bar
ext
lin
fry
ron
udm
kin
sgs
bul
aym
roh
oci
ceb
lav
srn
kom
mal
glv
isl
ara
kbd
gag
mal
tam
ell
glv
sgs
bho
srn
guj
bjn
mdf
oci
mya
gla
isl
bho
srp
mai
glv
dsb
aym
nds
scn
koi
fry
ava
srd
vol
cbk
eus
nan
asm
mya
pus
be-tarask
hun
slk
srn
kom
urd
nep
pol
aze
mkd
sna
vep
fin
bar
lit
slk
ckb
bjn
sgs
hye
ltg
bcl
ang
fao
srn
hat
fra
grn
rup
est
ast
ksh
tcy
nap
myv
cym
tur
bel
sna
oci
che
xmf
pdc
ell
nav
rup
srp
new
amh
fin
map-bms
cor
swe
lrc
pcd
eng
vep
slv
ksh
ell
ori
udm
ron
jpn
wln
che
mlg
crh
jav
lug
bre
kom
hif
glk
gla
lim
swe
lmo
hat
sqi
csb
scn
egl
kbd
lao
hsb
hbs
eus
cdo
zea
pnb
mlg
mwl
sin
div
pdc
nap
nds
glg
san
kor
mlg
tel
est
ltg
gle
gla
isl
swe
swe
kin
ton
dan
myv
vls
sgs
kat
nrm
dty
nob
lrc
dsb
mlt
kor
vol
arg
bre
msa
grn
glk
mal
mlt
pcd
eng
sqi
bjn
zea
gag
glk
div
pcd
mlt
nan
asm
div
sna
lad
hin
lav
tel
kaz
nav
kan
frp
gla
srn
aym
fra
hrv
swa
udm
mlg
csb
hun
bho
lit
que
war
kin
mri
fao
map-bms
div
eus
slv
srp
roa-tara
hat
kaz
mhr
sqi
koi
nld
cos
glv
tur
tyv
hat
isl
ibo
kin
pnb
pam
stq
mal
stq
lad
ile
oss
hak
kbd
tat
lez
bxr
eng
xmf
che
ara
nno
egl
roh
tel
glv
hat
fry
udm
ckb
srp
mya
oss
cdo
srp
fao
grn
lad
bpy
dan
be-tarask
ast
pdc
srp
nrm
jbo
jpn
lin
csb
bre
ton
mlt
nds
uig
kbd
afr
uig
war
vep
fin
rup
min
fao
uig
pus
war
nap
bel
kor
aym
amh
cym
pol
stq
khm
kat
glk
ckb
ind
bre
ext
lav
mwl
wln
ell
slk
fin
ang
slv
pfl
snd
pol
srd
kaz
nav
stq
bjn
eus
kbd
ang
mya
est
bho
xmf
lmo
zea
tet
glv
fao
hif
srp
vie
als
afr
mlg
fra
scn
epo
roa-tara
mkd
kan
khm
lez
gag
mdf
pap
arg
tat
mkd
arg
mkd
stq
epo
aze
ind
tur
hsb
kbd
new
mal
lav
cor
bxr
tcy
tgl
srd
fas
cdo
hak
cdo
rue
crh
asm
sco
ast
pag
sna
por
ell
mhr
lez
spa
xmf
glk
eus
vol
fry
tcy
xmf
srp
stq
nno
ext
nap
snd
ace
swe
lug
ita
ile
ext
rup
tat
nap
tel
nob
ast
asm
hbs
oci
ibo
mai
pfl
krc
cat
arg
ell
ace
fin
oss
bar
cos
ina
san
bjn
isl
ukr
glg
sgs
bjn
lim
nan
ile
lat
msa
myv
srp
bul
grn
nrm
bul
krc
ina
dan
pam
nno
ell
ukr
xho
fry
ckb
kaz
por
nrm
bxr
lim
nso
arg
map-bms
rue
pap
vep
oci
udm
koi
bel
mal
msa
aze
cor
kor
ckb
tha
vep
nap
myv
kom
pan
mya
tet
cat
nob
tha
mwl
vep
mya
tat
tha
swe
slv
san
pdc
kbd
dty
pol
pcd
yid
mdf
pus
pus
mar
cym
lad
glk
tha
fao
yid
pfl
hye
kom
aym
lav
que
fao
roh
aym
sco
nap
lad
lim
tha
vls
pol
cor
san
fin
est
isl
ltg
tgl
bar
sco
tsn
swe
slv
sco
nob
bxr
zea
pcd
dty
olo
tel
aym
uig
mon
pfl
srn
pam
hrv
pcd
scn
kat
ori
dty
arg
jbo
fry
tel
csb
nno
srn
fry
glg
pdc
asm
vol
fra
nds-nl
che
tur
aym
fra
lmo
ina
slk
amh
xmf
lat
als
sin
nan
nav
tha
cor
mal
sco
fin
lin
deu
kin
ces
mkd
tat
isl
olo
pnb
lao
oss
xmf
ast
mdf
nno
ces
fur
slk
dty
pan
cdo
map-bms
cor
xmf
vol
srn
als
ell
epo
lao
msa
que
ita
cos
mhr
ast
div
mal
lat
nob
mlt
eus
afr
ava
vls
cym
myv
mya
kor
ell
xho
myv
aze
epo
bcl
spa
bcl
tam
mdf
bho
hye
yid
ara
srn
ksh
tcy
lrc
sco
isl
div
crh
ile
ace
nno
hin
grn
ron
ceb
nds-nl
mwl
ibo
fry
pus
sqi
hin
hif
tel
bod
lez
kin
slk
ina
xmf
fry
lit
stq
kor
orm
tur
lao
hin
kan
pdc
ext
cdo
myv
fao
div
dsb
ace
map-bms
pol
bho
cym
ang
glk
wln
gag
sgs
isl
orm
guj
ckb
mya
slk
pnb
bcl
lmo
mdf
lat
kbd
nds-nl
tam
spa
tha
sqi
glv
epo
mon
new
rus
rup
roa-tara
tam
tat
roa-tara
bjn
ang
ita
swa
egl
bel
bul
roa-tara
bcl
dty
srn
kin
que
ava
udm
mdf
snd
cat
aym
crh
tel
nno
bod
tha
bxr
bel
ksh
afr
hin
lat
roa-tara
mlt
pcd
dty
nds
msa
scn
arg
lug
bel
egl
tat
bcl
kom
bod
pan
ita
min
glv
min
xmf
ksh
rus
jav
sme
urd
dan
krc
sin
mkd
lit
guj
tgl
tet
mar
ron
tet
myv
war
kin
nds
mai
kan
sco
gle
hif
gle
eus
vep
urd
mwl
nds-nl
min
hun
mdf
bar
por
cym
ace
bar
nav
bxr
vls
kbd
nds
pfl
que
ang
mon
mar
slk
pnb
rus
frp
hat
war
nob
war
asm
frp
bjn
stq
pdc
xho
cym
lin
nds-nl
ton
cor
que
ceb
pam
khm
afr
frp
cat
kbd
tgl
slv
lim
bar
nep
gag
isl
lit
kaz
pag
ava
ina
ara
ori
ckb
nds
gla
fao
orm
mal
vie
arg
ibo
lad
min
tyv
orm
tyv
bul
tel
ell
myv
stq
pam
krc
hrv
wln
bod
bho
cos
lrc
ron
isl
slv
bre
sme
slv
hye
nds
tcy
bho
gla
bcl
aze
mlt
jpn
pdc
pol
hat
srd
fas
kan
nrm
nno
be-tarask
slk
bod
vls
pus
khm
cor
kan
xmf
cbk
bcl
csb
asm
rue
ces
lad
stq
fao
ckb
que
lav
nds
ukr
pap
mhr
crh
roh
nso
hif
ori
kan
vol
che
msa
olo
lav
hat
mya
pfl
mya
kat
isl
krc
srd
pfl
nep
ava
nob
hif
tam
asm
ron
cor
hif
new
hin
khm
ava
kan
nap
rup
vls
jav
crh
ltg
olo
be-tarask
krc
glv
lug
oss
fas
kom
lav
glv
ckb
bjn
jpn
frp
bre
min
jbo
kin
nob
slv
fao
bxr
fao
por
ton
pnb
isl
gag
por
pol
mal
ibo
afr
new
rue
sme
jpn
bre
swe
kaz
pam
frp
ton
sin
mri
ckb
egl
ita
sme
hak
fin
aym
new
msa
epo
epo
slv
als
san
rus
ext
hsb
kaz
slk
frp
xmf
ang
roh
roa-tara
oss
scn
mal
nob
ckb
por
nap
ibo
bre
scn
lmo
tcy
fra
als
hrv
cos
fra
dan
msa
amh
srd
kat
swe
che
crh
ace
tam
ckb
pag
bxr
ace
kat
ton
roa-tara
mon
aym
epo
jbo
wln
srn
ita
tha
kaz
pap
sin
bjn
lin
dan
zea
msa
tat
ckb
gag
nld
bcl
lat
dty
xmf
div
lin
che
nep
tcy
gag
lat
sco
nep
kor
dty
sco
als
por
jpn
ext
spa
aze
mdf
tat
lav
hbs
mlt
sco
oss
nep
hye
pap
vls
afr
kan
ita
pan
xho
mar
ext
oss
swe
sgs
myv
lrc
cym
mri
pcd
che
glv
arg
eus
yid
kbd
che
map-bms
bho
nso
ara
lmo
ell
mri
bxr
tgl
ara
fao
que
snd
stq
egl
yid
nan
bre
war
tgl
pag
orm
cym
glg
mlt
slk
ukr
fur
ina
cbk
lim
mwl
deu
dan
wln
sna
aze
jbo
pfl
map-bms
hak
bar
tam
nan
rue
ksh
hrv
lav
dty
sin
cym
mwl
ace
tel
oci
mwl
vol
fra
map-bms
xmf
glv
mwl
hye
slk
fas
xmf
bre
ile
snd
kan
gla
war
bxr
mri
hak
nep
tur
fao
isl
jav
xmf
nep
ibo
ina
xmf
amh
div
hun
spa
hun
guj
bjn
epo
cor
mhr
khm
ile
slk
vol
snd
kin
scn
pfl
scn
gle
swa
slv
hsb
pus
kat
vep
crh
bpy
pag
uig
orm
kat
koi
scn
bre
tel
yid
ina
mai
nso
tha
hin
map-bms
slv
pcd
dty
orm
asm
fry
lao
gla
glk
cym
fry
vol
mal
msa
grn
ckb
srn
deu
pdc
cor
csb
rup
por
kin
rue
roa-tara
snd
slk
swa
tet
crh
hif
fin
crh
myv
sin
uig
lug
bpy
mar
sna
stq
bxr
mhr
deu
dsb
eus
csb
cdo
sin
hak
mlg
hif
slv
fao
sco
pus
tyv
epo
srd
crh
mal
mhr
jav
gle
afr
pap
khm
urd
jav
mlg
eus
pol
tat
deu
map-bms
kan
bjn
swa
eus
sco
nds
epo
isl
lez
aze
san
hbs
bjn
ukr
crh
myv
kat
kaz
jpn
als
deu
pnb
nld
mlg
rue
dsb
egl
lin
myv
srp
eus
rus
dsb
hun
oci
pap
nds
udm
glk
cor
bre
ori
udm
oss
min
nds-nl
glk
deu
hak
ang
ace
isl
pan
mwl
mar
isl
vie
ori
kat
san
nob
nep
ori
arg
sin
cym
hrv
jbo
urd
arg
mhr
srd
roa-tara
mya
fry
hif
lez
fur
kor
ton
mai
cat
lrc
scn
fur
nrm
ckb
ckb
zea
tur
bxr
mhr
krc
gle
che
nep
krc
ltg
nav
ava
sgs
ind
nrm
sqi
fur
sme
egl
lmo
ceb
pfl
ckb
div
asm
sqi
pam
pag
cym
zea
bcl
bxr
sna
tet
lug
ace
krc
por
bre
tat
che
tam
tur
glg
nav
egl
hun
que
pol
rus
fin
bcl
cos
msa
ibo
jav
myv
tel
nan
tyv
khm
san
yid
isl
frp
tam
olo
nds-nl
deu
urd
krc
olo
crh
tur
mai
gla
bho
rup
pan
afr
ibo
slk
san
kbd
amh
ton
hsb
scn
oci
lad
hak
por
bre
sin
mal
srn
nrm
isl
vep
gle
pus
fin
asm
nan
swe
tam
glk
bxr
ckb
frp
mlg
isl
ron
swa
tur
est
jpn
pan
swe
fin
lim
amh
olo
kin
gag
tur
ace
glg
hye
jpn
cym
ksh
kin
mri
isl
guj
nld
yid
mdf
lat
nap
ind
hye
slv
que
vie
kin
oss
srp
ita
scn
nld
glg
fur
kor
sin
ext
ile
ibo
mal
pan
wln
aze
aze
deu
cos
ell
pfl
pus
orm
scn
epo
sna
ltg
bar
crh
olo
bul
hye
ukr
ara
lez
kbd
glk
pol
kat
che
tet
kat
mlg
tel
ang
asm
mhr
bxr
hbs
ori
ace
srn
scn
als
afr
csb
lez
gle
por
gle
lin
vie
olo
sin
pam
jav
orm
lao
dty
srp
scn
lrc
tel
ara
snd
kor
mon
khm
kan
be-tarask
lin
lat
jbo
fur
ckb
mai
bul
ast
srp
udm
min
hbs
ckb
bpy
sin
ina
fur
san
ace
myv
bho
pam
lin
lrc
ita
ast
nld
lug
che
slk
eus
slk
hin
por
hak
olo
mai
ltg
bxr
slk
fao
jpn
hun
vep
tyv
csb
nno
udm
stq
be-tarask
ltg
dan
ind
nds
hif
snd
tgl
arg
cbk
swe
dty
mlg
guj
fry
ron
ces
ukr
roh
koi
guj
ibo
lez
als
ell
mri
lao
ell
mri
hbs
orm
hif
ton
csb
glk
wln
pap
nno
srd
slv
glv
lug
hat
tyv
que
war
ltg
isl
ace
mhr
pol
hrv
kan
ara
gle
ckb
lug
new
san
bar
pus
hun
amh
ext
sna
sco
div
mdf
nds-nl
fas
kor
vie
slv
bar
lin
gle
sin
ell
hrv
pcd
cbk
crh
sna
glg
ton
jav
vol
bjn
arg
ara
dsb
oss
sgs
lrc
pus
slv
san
ron
als
kin
egl
tgl
swa
ind
crh
bod
lao
san
tur
jbo
swa
ibo
ksh
lmo
bcl
bxr
sme
sme
pam
nld
srd
bar
slv
yid
tha
stq
mri
por
fur
cym
eus
pag
amh
eus
glg
oci
oci
lin
epo
lug
lit
hin
fry
sme
dty
map-bms
gla
tyv
asm
bjn
vol
vol
ukr
pan
bpy
san
hif
lav
nap
mlt
kan
swa
cym
ace
glk
snd
egl
swe
lug
mlg
pus
dsb
asm
mal
pag
urd
koi
fas
khm
hun
stq
mon
ara
mon
lug
hin
gla
sna
pam
tsn
ext
ang
lin
nrm
sco
glg
mhr
zea
lug
tel
rue
glg
isl
ell
new
ron
spa
ceb
mri
eus
csb
tsn
orm
bcl
glg
jpn
xmf
pag
slv
sin
tyv
myv
rus
ell
fra
hrv
pus
cbk
mon
pan
aym
uig
pag
kor
sin
hak
che
hrv
ile
mlg
cor
arg
ace
tat
ita
tcy
ltg
glv
ltg
fra
swa
mlg
hrv
est
dty
ori
bel
mkd
nld
xho
fur
slk
tam
swa
udm
frp
myv
tcy
kaz
nld
srp
khm
eng
lit
bxr
lug
uig
bul
bre
ukr
sqi
vol
pdc
pan
mai
sgs
san
urd
nav
ava
ile
amh
ces
ast
kaz
bcl
ell
lad
msa
tgl
ibo
kin
olo
glg
grn
udm
tyv
sin
ton
rue
arg
che
hak
ang
jav
snd
nav
hbs
mlt
vie
lad
urd
frp
spa
ang
ext
dan
ast
est
msa
udm
nld
arg
mlt
gla
fry
spa
aym
jbo
nap
nap
hrv
mar
slk
wln
uig
ile
orm
mon
dan
aym
ell
swe
ces
pap
tgl
dan
slk
nav
jpn
tsn
nan
koi
mar
kaz
nds-nl
bar
rus
asm
kom
kor
new
zea
mya
ext
hbs
mri
snd
mdf
grn
ina
nav
jbo
sin
gla
yid
glv
cat
lad
xmf
hif
lin
ile
lit
lez
mlt
guj
ukr
asm
uig
vep
kom
pam
ile
bho
lit
isl
udm
ang
csb
lim
mdf
srp
krc
hrv
nrm
yid
ori
tcy
sco
koi
tsn
roa-tara
zea
por
lat
gle
ang
lit
bpy
est
nob
xho
bcl
nep
hun
tam
ita
mkd
mai
bpy
mkd
mya
fra
lez
mri
tcy
ces
crh
pcd
pag
ckb
war
srp
fin
bcl
ile
bel
ava
fas
amh
asm
che
lrc
bod
ori
ukr
eus
nrm
kin
roa-tara
scn
nep
ibo
slk
che
tgl
nob
gla
que
mwl
fin
fur
mkd
hrv
kin
hin
san
bul
epo
lat
srp
roa-tara
uig
ori
que
glg
mlt
map-bms
kom
koi
lez
ava
kan
sgs
nob
hak
bho
vls
bcl
ibo
ceb
rue
jpn
epo
mya
hbs
stq
cos
mwl
uig
ori
hye
yid
lrc
krc
pag
lim
fin
spa
hbs
cor
ori
lmo
tsn
dsb
ukr
asm
nob
mdf
nep
sna
srn
bxr
hun
ita
mdf
sgs
hin
bar
mkd
pan
mai
cym
stq
fur
lin
stq
fao
fas
tet
uig
cym
scn
jav
als
tur
nrm
jav
ind
bho
bpy
mar
gla
jpn
mhr
dan
rup
koi
vep
slv
epo
orm
tat
lug
cos
rus
mon
vol
hrv
cym
lad
urd
ceb
hbs
lez
bpy
gag
ace
ukr
ile
gle
cdo
msa
roh
orm
mdf
udm
krc
ron
kbd
mlt
aze
srn
swe
mwl
rup
ori
slk
fao
eus
ell
als
isl
fas
nob
cos
nso
tur
hsb
bxr
hat
nld
fin
nep
glg
mri
div
be-tarask
mwl
ukr
kbd
bar
bre
lrc
mai
fas
zea
tur
sco
slv
dsb
khm
hbs
tat
nap
pap
mri
arg
roh
mwl
hye
be-tarask
lmo
cbk
ksh
hsb
ces
cbk
bar
mar
nds-nl
gle
grn
ces
map-bms
krc
srp
zea
asm
kbd
lin
cat
tet
kaz
mon
kat
tgl
ceb
lin
udm
csb
pus
mkd
bod
sme
stq
lao
sna
kom
kat
nob
zea
ace
jav
rue
glg
lao
olo
rue
msa
mal
dsb
afr
srp
dan
lmo
lez
bul
bjn
bre
hsb
sgs
que
csb
ron
mya
hsb
zea
hun
vol
krc
nav
swa
bxr
aze
que
kaz
zea
sco
mri
nav
sme
kin
nso
orm
lrc
pus
sco
crh
yid
swe
uig
fry
mkd
jpn
fas
rus
pap
ext
nrm
roh
stq
ell
bul
oci
sme
cos
bar
bxr
nob
xmf
cos
tam
grn
epo
ita
bre
pnb
hun
ell
mkd
ceb
ara
ckb
mri
oss
dsb
arg
hat
ukr
uig
por
sqi
eus
ces
ext
ita
pap
bcl
asm
tam
hsb
mlg
cor
crh
lmo
pcd
ksh
ibo
mlg
bar
kin
cym
slk
sme
pus
cat
egl
cdo
lad
olo
lat
nan
vep
gla
fra
ton
jpn
lin
que
ell
gla
lao
mwl
tgl
asm
new
dsb
mal
pan
lit
grn
cos
fry
lin
nep
sqi
mlt
fra
lmo
glk
nso
lat
mar
tyv
glk
eng
new
hrv
nrm
kin
pan
srd
tel
oss
bpy
hak
fin
ibo
map-bms
ava
kor
bcl
be-tarask
ceb
cbk
glv
bel
hat
tyv
sme
pag
fin
ast
rup
be-tarask
cor
hbs
guj
hif
tam
ces
xho
kbd
nrm
mlt
lad
yid
nso
sna
dan
fra
lao
glk
hsb
mal
mya
gla
tyv
tel
mwl
ces
pdc
hsb
hrv
kin
mar
frp
kom
oss
san
pus
bpy
bjn
snd
nan
bjn
sna
kat
ron
jav
deu
pfl
ukr
glg
stq
kin
pfl
aze
bul
lrc
fur
bho
lin
jav
bjn
jpn
bre
mhr
ksh
ksh
bre
jpn
pdc
isl
hin
tur
nds-nl
wln
arg
uig
tha
nob
nso
tat
pfl
stq
lat
ast
srd
fao
ang
hye
sme
fra
nrm
pus
lav
kaz
xmf
dsb
sna
gle
uig
pag
mal
ara
koi
div
vol
tyv
bxr
glv
sme
fao
lin
snd
nds
cym
mlt
ibo
bxr
min
ckb
pnb
olo
ltg
rue
pfl
nan
krc
cdo
yid
aym
hak
aze
war
bul
est
tha
bod
lmo
ext
mar
sna
amh
ibo
tat
cor
aym
mai
fur
pcd
sna
swa
che
jpn
new
tur
bar
als
gag
gag
lao
xmf
nav
crh
pag
be-tarask
myv
oci
gle
cym
afr
que
spa
isl
hye
xho
yid
ind
hye
roa-tara
eng
map-bms
bho
glk
lmo
egl
nrm
mlg
pus
krc
ckb
urd
div
egl
amh
amh
cbk
be-tarask
ina
lit
cdo
rus
bjn
ara
cat
tgl
hsb
arg
rus
jpn
min
pdc
msa
vls
mlg
udm
kbd
mai
pan
mlg
koi
swe
msa
swa
pfl
slk
eus
kaz
myv
nds-nl
pfl
krc
grn
kan
nds
dty
ita
eng
arg
ara
dan
nep
roh
deu
als
nep
ron
epo
mon
tha
vie
pus
ron
nep
cos
mon
lug
lug
sme
urd
scn
snd
afr
olo
lit
glg
mri
sgs
swe
wln
mri
pfl
glv
hrv
lad
bel
cat
sgs
lug
sgs
glv
ind
sna
fur
udm
ind
mlg
uig
fry
msa
csb
vls
spa
hsb
tel
kor
myv
glv
lin
nso
ava
als
ext
gag
swa
mya
lim
wln
isl
mlt
kaz
pdc
yid
lad
fra
rue
msa
be-tarask
mai
mhr
new
gag
pdc
afr
ton
frp
nds
pfl
ava
swa
urd
myv
est
sin
kat
pfl
vls
tam
nld
ell
urd
grn
pag
ces
deu
lez
vep
bcl
hin
spa
ava
mon
pdc
hin
est
srp
nep
mdf
glv
pol
cat
nso
lmo
scn
dsb
nep
lez
dan
swe
map-bms
ina
wln
yid
ron
kor
bjn
bxr
sco
rus
krc
gla
sqi
swe
lin
be-tarask
nav
tha
vep
hye
lav
nso
sme
pcd
sqi
mya
csb
lrc
ceb
ukr
mal
mdf
aze
afr
mri
nld
bjn
bod
krc
snd
ksh
fao
bjn
ind
nld
fas
fry
tgl
min
dsb
ron
vep
dan
ckb
be-tarask
nno
est
cdo
ron
est
rus
csb
ita
pfl
urd
sgs
orm
vls
hak
jav
pap
pcd
slk
vol
che
ton
hrv
sgs
be-tarask
vol
bcl
slv
lav
pdc
ast
mlg
tam
lao
sgs
min
san
ceb
rup
als
jbo
ces
bar
ind
hsb
lad
pus
new
bcl
pol
stq
mlt
ron
urd
gla
ces
ace
est
sin
myv
ara
uig
bul
xmf
div
arg
pap
be-tarask
olo
mwl
oci
nav
oss
mon
epo
hbs
cor
fin
dsb
sme
msa
pfl
ace
grn
csb
oss
vie
slv
krc
pag
kor
egl
koi
ori
gla
sin
map-bms
olo
ina
crh
gag
nob
srn
khm
nav
ace
gle
tam
nan
lad
hrv
kom
ori
jpn
ast
hrv
cdo
jav
lim
cor
mar
csb
gla
pam
ckb
sqi
lao
kaz
bod
crh
cor
mlg
slv
sin
dty
bjn
hun
bul
bre
koi
rus
fur
roa-tara
amh
krc
tha
hin
xmf
dan
que
kom
dty
tcy
kor
mal
pus
new
sin
uig
slk
xho
hat
nrm
ita
jpn
oci
lrc
rus
mya
nds-nl
vls
roh
bar
oss
ace
ton
lav
cos
gle
ava
ita
fry
zea
koi
new
slv
cbk
rue
hat
que
fin
xho
kom
uig
rup
eng
uig
nan
nds
epo
pnb
gla
stq
guj
tgl
ltg
epo
hun
new
glg
bpy
hbs
deu
tyv
hbs
bxr
san
tyv
ibo
war
swe
sme
dsb
pus
ang
egl
nds-nl
swe
stq
san
min
lao
srd
bcl
hye
cym
nap
afr
xmf
pol
rus
mlt
ron
ina
pcd
ang
mkd
dan
map-bms
ibo
tel
bjn
hrv
sco
ext
hak
fry
ind
ita
tur
egl
fao
kan
mlt
ukr
spa
als
lim
tur
map-bms
hye
tam
ces
lav
pap
vep
kaz
hbs
mon
lez
kin
che
lin
mhr
por
lat
sqi
tyv
grn
pfl
glk
srp
lez
hif
pap
glk
csb
sco
ext
afr
oss
zea
ltg
gag
slk
mya
xho
tgl
ind
crh
nep
mdf
ckb
kom
wln
amh
nld
lim
myv
mon
nap
gla
nds-nl
kat
fin
stq
mal
srn
crh
gle
ind
mwl
jav
guj
war
ceb
lit
rus
frp
srp
sin
myv
pdc
tel
nep
nrm
sqi
asm
olo
mon
gle
fao
srd
lao
pus
hsb
dan
tat
cat
jbo
msa
kan
lez
frp
mhr
mai
ast
hin
amh
ace
glg
slv
olo
arg
ces
che
cat
kaz
vol
ceb
cbk
che
kbd
eus
rus
bjn
srd
srp
pus
bho
yid
est
hat
bar
hrv
urd
hrv
hrv
fur
nso
mdf
als
aze
ukr
mlt
mya
koi
nno
rup
kom
jav
nrm
yid
fao
orm
bar
ast
sme
nds
pfl
kom
lit
vol
ron
nap
kat
fry
ltg
ell
mri
xmf
war
kom
nld
vol
por
kan
hun
spa
nap
rue
lug
nds-nl
pdc
mhr
pcd
tgl
sqi
ast
csb
mhr
vie
lmo
min
est
sco
nso
tam
mkd
lao
ceb
sna
war
bod
mar
tsn
pcd
kbd
dan
bho
nds-nl
cbk
rue
pfl
roa-tara
asm
cor
bar
fao
msa
csb
ron
ind
cbk
fin
por
jav
swe
nds
tgl
kaz
lrc
hsb
lmo
sgs
msa
stq
fin
ang
dsb
xho
tel
cbk
div
nan
nds-nl
ina
krc
pcd
pam
rue
lav
hsb
lao
ita
olo
spa
srn
bcl
fra
pus
nan
che
hun
rus
zea
lav
ibo
mon
jpn
csb
urd
por
cbk
ava
ces
ace
cat
tat
pol
roh
dsb
lit
ton
ace
tcy
pcd
war
ori
gag
pol
nso
dty
mhr
cdo
ast
ltg
lug
lat
glg
sgs
hye
che
cdo
ceb
eus
kom
fas
fur
mlt
swa
war
srd
ace
pan
tur
swe
ell
tel
swa
ina
kaz
snd
lad
gla
lez
cat
mdf
myv
sgs
est
ast
afr
ibo
pfl
afr
nap
sgs
lad
lmo
mai
san
rus
kom
san
ell
map-bms
ton
srn
fas
vls
lmo
fao
hrv
que
nso
kaz
bar
swa
sin
roh
hat
lad
crh
ita
scn
lao
kin
sqi
bul
min
lao
lit
lug
vol
uig
ibo
ibo
aym
rus
krc
ace
orm
jav
ell
be-tarask
vls
lug
que
hin
kbd
pap
frp
tyv
cat
tur
slv
oss
nds-nl
jav
xho
lao
mri
bar
new
hrv
cor
arg
gag
wln
srd
myv
fry
rus
ind
swa
gla
hin
glg
nds-nl
ces
gle
gla
bho
ava
jbo
cbk
bod
eus
pol
jbo
eng
min
sme
be-tarask
hye
ksh
srp
lez
bjn
ell
hbs
ara
nso
kan
srp
xho
nob
san
pnb
nan
lav
xmf
ara
ita
nav
cym
hak
lrc
ava
kan
cbk
mhr
rup
ita
swa
ang
deu
ava
fas
lmo
kin
mkd
lmo
csb
glg
deu
nno
ori
guj
lug
nds
est
msa
yid
pag
bod
nan
srp
vep
rue
cor
be-tarask
ang
pap
mri
pus
mya
mhr
tam
nav
kbd
frp
pdc
map-bms
lrc
mkd
als
csb
sco
dty
epo
pap
ile
guj
hrv
dan
sme
bho
bjn
ckb
srd
olo
pag
hsb
hin
scn
jpn
lao
nob
rue
mlg
orm
aym
bul
aze
hrv
nrm
vol
frp
vls
glk
eng
hbs
mhr
nep
fas
lit
deu
swa
glk
bar
nds-nl
mai
eus
oci
stq
hrv
pam
ang
arg
nds-nl
srn
ckb
mlg
vol
vep
nrm
nno
myv
kbd
mlg
eus
ast
khm
bho
bul
pan
ori
slk
ace
scn
glk
afr
jpn
oci
cat
kat
pag
pfl
tsn
xho
hin
ltg
wln
cdo
ace
ckb
ibo
sin
vls
roh
roa-tara
xmf
aym
lav
aze
mlg
nld
tur
snd
bul
hak
mhr
roa-tara
div
nav
mlt
aze
que
mon
ang
tcy
bar
jav
bxr
nrm
amh
arg
pnb
pnb
nep
kaz
nap
sco
lat
bod
nob
ltg
tam
jpn
hsb
tam
vol
srp
epo
grn
ceb
lav
khm
srn
mal
lmo
stq
cym
tat
kbd
tel
isl
bxr
kbd
sqi
eus
frp
asm
pdc
myv
sgs
cym
roa-tara
lao
bpy
bel
jpn
cdo
pus
ltg
eus
kaz
sna
fry
min
hat
als
tur
sco
ell
mal
mhr
min
mlt
bel
pan
nep
nds-nl
sgs
kbd
nds
pap
tel
nno
hif
srn
tcy
bel
vep
que
cym
tam
lat
lad
min
pam
roh
slv
mya
amh
lit
roh
orm
pag
min
ina
ton
jbo
vls
pap
hif
myv
als
frp
ile
sqi
hun
nep
hif
kin
roh
rup
mlt
lim
pam
cos
ind
ksh
ava
crh
vep
epo
kan
tsn
fas
lao
jbo
cbk
gag
vie
fao
pan
yid
roh
msa
vie
mai
lez
sna
que
snd
lim
pus
vep
new
cor
map-bms
mri
cor
por
roh
oci
bod
nob
aym
tha
bar
fin
ara
roa-tara
udm
glk
ita
tha
fur
ukr
vls
nap
kan
est
sco
tam
guj
glk
hye
bul
jav
mlg
crh
fao
swa
nan
sme
wln
uig
roa-tara
bxr
lmo
deu
tel
stq
srd
sin
vol
yid
be-tarask
oss
tam
dan
mon
gag
pag
bcl
afr
tgl
pan
new
pcd
bel
slv
pdc
lmo
nrm
pus
hrv
ell
cat
bul
arg
kor
rue
hsb
nno
fry
orm
khm
bar
mwl
cor
hye
vls
scn
mhr
pnb
mwl
khm
hat
hun
bho
ron
eus
nep
mhr
yid
glv
frp
vls
jbo
min
tyv
cat
mri
gle
hbs
por
lao
fin
pnb
fra
arg
uig
war
swe
nep
nld
mri
tyv
lug
krc
ile
afr
ext
pcd
bod
ksh
slk
krc
msa
sco
ext
tcy
ava
egl
bxr
roh
olo
kor
amh
vie
lad
lao
fra
tgl
tha
pus
lez
be-tarask
asm
hrv
est
orm
afr
pan
wln
eus
cdo
eng
nan
tur
lmo
gla
sme
est
glk
tel
slk
vep
sqi
war
grn
be-tarask
pap
gag
lao
crh
xho
mal
fry
pag
swe
rue
ron
mai
ast
sme
roh
mal
kin
rus
mhr
csb
urd
srp
pan
isl
hbs
cos
zea
tam
urd
ace
bxr
dan
gag
kan
swa
che
ell
hak
ang
koi
kan
hin
tha
oss
pap
glv
roa-tara
cos
mlg
fur
lim
swe
olo
nap
myv
lit
jpn
mwl
bjn
cym
mhr
krc
myv
bel
fur
scn
bod
mlt
mai
crh
lin
swa
pag
guj
nap
bel
srn
khm
sna
ron
xmf
glk
mkd
dan
kaz
jbo
fry
ltg
sme
tcy
mlg
bar
war
srn
gla
myv
cor
vol
pag
fao
hsb
krc
udm
new
pan
pam
frp
bpy
dsb
arg
que
ind
vie
nds
nds-nl
glg
tsn
snd
hun
ind
guj
roa-tara
ita
jpn
vie
ron
bod
tcy
glv
fra
egl
amh
ron
nld
frp
fao
sna
aym
frp
egl
war
als
glk
ton
lez
ell
sgs
cor
bho
myv
dsb
mai
egl
que
pnb
fry
bul
asm
mar
orm
ton
nds
fra
orm
krc
roh
nso
tyv
eus
fur
epo
kat
cat
hin
pus
grn
lmo
eus
afr
mon
hye
ibo
cbk
slv
zea
vls
bul
tur
hsb
spa
crh
mlg
swa
ltg
nno
mlt
lit
pap
gla
ell
bcl
mar
pnb
uig
crh
lit
vls
div
snd
rue
tsn
frp
epo
kor
pan
glv
lez
roh
vep
hrv
guj
san
udm
ibo
sna
ile
als
amh
mkd
mdf
glg
mon
cos
swa
grn
myv
kom
mon
aym
urd
mar
ori
hun
csb
kom
xho
nrm
bcl
roh
pcd
udm
bcl
sna
ron
als
fao
mal
glg
slk
tha
hye
kaz
aym
koi
ton
dsb
new
lug
vls
kbd
mdf
mal
nob
udm
kor
nav
rup
vls
ron
hat
ang
rup
mri
ton
xmf
oss
ace
nep
bxr
lav
pag
hin
bul
nld
fur
che
bel
che
rus
bar
srd
msa
mon
tgl
arg
vie
pan
hbs
sco
lmo
guj
vls
snd
nan
kor
orm
hsb
pam
kan
lug
srp
fur
pan
lim
kan
tet
min
tet
nrm
mwl
ckb
dty
tgl
ara
fur
hsb
srp
be-tarask
ces
wln
xmf
que
tat
tcy
afr
ton
ina
bpy
kor
ceb
bho
lug
jav
ksh
pam
nso
swe
sin
fas
gle
wln
swa
mlg
srn
glk
krc
spa
mlt
est
vol
est
xho
deu
fur
srp
deu
fra
mai
tur
pol
ori
bho
lit
jbo
snd
jpn
ast
wln
ibo
slk
tcy
lim
sme
spa
war
msa
nan
pus
arg
est
bcl
hat
koi
war
ori
tsn
mkd
mwl
msa
slv
xmf
vep
glk
bul
new
ori
als
lim
che
ina
cos
ita
pam
min
amh
ibo
myv
scn
jav
nap
nap
nan
crh
ind
mlg
hrv
tyv
sgs
bel
arg
jav
ron
nep
hun
deu
tcy
sna
war
pus
pag
bxr
tet
krc
xmf
wln
krc
pcd
scn
nav
tur
bre
rup
rus
sna
ltg
map-bms
pfl
cym
vls
cos
bod
jav
zea
lin
gla
ile
aym
nep
ukr
eus
cat
sco
map-bms
lad
lad
lug
fra
cbk
mwl
swa
crh
ace
gag
mri
srp
sco
crh
slk
sna
ext
ukr
bod
mar
ces
swa
lin
cos
nno
mhr
tyv
mal
mri
tgl
swa
deu
ron
tel
pam
ckb
lav
orm
arg
fin
orm
min
nan
vep
nav
khm
nso
be-tarask
uig
tsn
jbo
cym
lav
cor
gag
srn
lug
gla
ang
kin
fao
hbs
lrc
mhr
urd
new
oci
ava
ori
mya
tsn
tat
lav
ltg
sin
crh
mlt
kbd
sco
ksh
pan
ckb
grn
sin
pol
kor
jbo
bpy
lrc
lao
fur
sin
ile
ace
ace
egl
nan
lim
por
cat
oss
swa
kor
ukr
pam
lad
hif
lmo
cat
mwl
lao
ang
nep
pap
amh
ast
cat
ibo
ind
pus
dty
zea
lmo
kbd
bcl
ksh
srd
bel
new
nav
lin
aym
arg
nav
div
kin
xho
lez
ext
kbd
mar
srp
ell
ang
nap
nno
krc
rue
war
hsb
hak
tha
kat
nds
olo
tha
tel
fur
hat
orm
gag
scn
mhr
hat
cym
cat
nds
bpy
ton
fry
mri
vls
hat
aym
cos
pam
fao
sna
fra
pfl
nav
bxr
gag
cor
lit
nan
afr
mlg
srn
mya
tsn
glk
san
nno
tur
swe
fra
mri
urd
tam
dan
min
nrm
ton
ckb
tha
min
lin
bxr
yid
kom
bar
glg
hrv
cym
jbo
pag
ton
cor
vls
kbd
urd
mya
fin
fur
ton
myv
aym
bul
myv
gla
ibo
que
fas
jav
jav
kin
epo
urd
udm
olo
div
mlt
fas
pus
jbo
sna
swa
xho
srn
ceb
eng
hak
amh
pus
por
khm
mlg
ind
pam
fry
cat
roh
rue
est
nob
mwl
ces
pan
vls
rue
pag
bho
glk
div
pus
bel
ind
srn
ron
map-bms
kaz
mlg
orm
jpn
nan
nld
nrm
wln
sme
ukr
hun
hsb
bcl
ina
lav
tsn
cat
map-bms
dan
lug
bjn
krc
wln
nrm
lin
ile
sgs
ksh
lao
dsb
hak
dsb
ron
rue
deu
kom
isl
srn
ukr
tcy
nds-nl
mri
dan
hun
lit
fin
ori
nso
amh
rue
hsb
jpn
rue
csb
vie
hsb
mlt
nob
rus
ron
pam
fry
nld
mar
frp
mon
csb
mlg
nep
orm
isl
ara
war
bjn
tyv
hrv
roh
ron
war
pus
bul
ori
aym
mai
mal
glg
pfl
gle
bxr
pan
guj
ces
ton
pdc
bre
urd
sna
cbk
mhr
lao
pag
jpn
jpn
kom
pam
lav
hye
jbo
vls
eng
mri
be-tarask
urd
nob
tha
lim
sqi
fry
kom
fin
cdo
ukr
guj
bre
koi
san
map-bms
be-tarask
stq
new
ast
nds-nl
mon
pag
war
cos
lim
tel
que
ang
nap
nno
bar
hat
ukr
wln
ile
ind
mlg
fin
ltg
hif
che
mar
uig
fry
xmf
frp
hrv
deu
sqi
eng
nno
amh
ile
bcl
nep
che
isl
eng
tgl
kat
kan
frp
nrm
war
fao
sqi
srd
nap
roa-tara
zea
hif
ori
gag
ita
khm
jbo
kat
als
lao
msa
gag
sqi
srp
egl
cdo
che
gle
rue
mkd
hbs
rus
ind
kin
srn
lit
que
jpn
zea
srn
roa-tara
arg
nav
nap
nds-nl
kan
lug
mya
frp
rup
sna
pus
myv
bho
uig
vls
pdc
hat
koi
tsn
cbk
sqi
por
gla
isl
ceb
ibo
mkd
lrc
nap
ukr
mai
udm
tet
srd
zea
kat
cym
epo
kbd
ita
fas
war
roh
kan
dan
cbk
nrm
dsb
amh
tam
xmf
nep
kan
krc
nno
tha
tgl
lat
kat
eus
oci
min
nso
pag
csb
ile
ces
kat
nds-nl
aym
ksh
kor
pag
bho
nan
nds
hrv
kaz
afr
nan
sna
ltg
tgl
lrc
gle
csb
crh
gla
olo
gla
ang
rue
fas
slk
tur
lmo
slk
lav
lim
sme
che
lug
stq
nno
slv
mkd
por
ava
pfl
ara
nrm
ace
isl
fur
ron
fas
fry
lim
xho
nno
new
csb
bar
scn
ibo
ast
hbs
egl
gla
stq
mal
glg
pag
ita
wln
roh
lin
cbk
ori
kom
pol
ava
fry
ltg
aze
ukr
pam
cat
pus
map-bms
jpn
lim
be-tarask
cym
kom
pag
pam
roa-tara
amh
roa-tara
vep
ces
ckb
vol
ita
pam
nds
pus
mlg
cor
lav
fry
fry
ukr
mkd
udm
ksh
che
tur
bre
fur
bel
hun
div
krc
sco
nds
ukr
mar
eng
hak
asm
xmf
xmf
war
frp
che
hun
arg
gla
orm
fao
oci
bul
nep
cbk
zea
rus
aze
hye
sna
lad
nds
bcl
ind
lav
tur
pcd
bpy
wln
kat
deu
deu
srp
hbs
tet
swe
nan
oss
por
hif
lim
ori
mlt
frp
oss
hye
kat
mri
gla
kor
tyv
sna
bar
fra
kbd
ceb
srp
lad
pus
lug
dan
guj
orm
tcy
udm
spa
mal
fra
sgs
uig
roa-tara
gle
pdc
por
pap
mkd
yid
slk
egl
hat
nso
urd
crh
udm
nob
ina
xho
ckb
roh
ext
sqi
pdc
map-bms
msa
tel
que
san
cos
crh
snd
pus
cym
wln
dty
vls
mlg
ind
nno
srp
ang
grn
lrc
bar
cdo
scn
eus
mlg
hat
nap
tyv
krc
stq
new
ang
cos
lav
hif
nds-nl
olo
crh
ceb
bxr
uig
mlt
isl
lad
nob
dsb
bxr
lao
dsb
asm
eng
vol
kor
csb
bre
ckb
est
orm
stq
ces
que
isl
fin
bjn
ang
ita
slk
nrm
div
udm
ell
sin
nap
guj
glv
bcl
be-tarask
pnb
fra
gle
cbk
map-bms
ltg
tyv
fra
orm
roh
rus
nds-nl
uig
aym
por
afr
orm
fra
nob
hbs
mya
mon
glg
yid
crh
tur
slv
ara
tet
mai
csb
nso
lad
srp
tyv
rus
arg
ind
isl
xmf
hsb
pam
lim
rus
als
new
afr
sna
bod
egl
pus
cat
sna
swe
fra
eng
aym
glg
hat
ast
ltg
csb
mai
lad
hif
bxr
san
kat
lad
ibo
khm
lrc
ava
hbs
ara
bcl
fry
ind
egl
eus
pol
sme
kat
roa-tara
lin
eus
div
tyv
pfl
tet
vls
lez
swe
ang
mai
kin
nds-nl
urd
bod
ron
xmf
lez
mar
ace
cdo
new
cos
tha
grn
hbs
rue
tgl
pcd
lav
guj
mdf
kom
guj
mlg
mri
nan
kom
bar
sco
jpn
dsb
pag
mya
hun
egl
ces
udm
mkd
tsn
jbo
jpn
rup
bcl
eng
pan
nno
hin
ang
nso
ceb
fur
sin
tyv
aym
mdf
min
scn
wln
pcd
guj
nav
slv
ksh
kat
krc
tyv
bre
eng
nds-nl
bpy
bar
ara
sna
swa
aze
map-bms
ksh
ita
glg
lim
map-bms
slv
lin
stq
roa-tara
udm
map-bms
ell
arg
rus
mal
hbs
est
pfl
mkd
scn
orm
nob
ltg
rus
yid
ang
eus
aze
eng
ltg
pag
pol
egl
xho
koi
nds-nl
tyv
dsb
mhr
lad
stq
deu
por
hat
nso
nob
mdf
nso
ara
nld
cor
lit
tam
aze
nav
bod
slk
lez
arg
lav
ltg
cor
fry
sgs
deu
sin
ava
tgl
sgs
be-tarask
nav
vep
ori
kor
ind
vep
spa
khm
rus
mar
ori
mya
roa-tara
pdc
eng
glk
kan
arg
sme
yid
sco
ori
mwl
ext
vie
tet
bpy
egl
jav
kin
ind
ext
aze
ksh
kan
kin
roa-tara
vie
lin
nno
hrv
khm
hye
lrc
ton
ltg
uig
lez
aym
rus
mlg
tel
lav
hsb
scn
kom
hin
ava
jpn
slv
oci
hif
ina
pap
ces
sco
por
gle
krc
cym
vls
pdc
mdf
kat
ext
bar
bar
bul
fin
uig
oci
guj
rup
eng
als
aym
san
mkd
lez
lez
dan
ukr
oss
por
glk
ell
kan
pcd
hsb
war
fas
nep
hif
be-tarask
mri
scn
guj
ibo
nno
tat
khm
hbs
grn
vep
dan
roa-tara
aym
tam
urd
ukr
deu
mdf
tcy
urd
rus
ori
rus
roa-tara
amh
cym
san
tel
ile
xho
myv
bre
guj
ukr
isl
kat
lez
tsn
pus
lin
cos
hbs
isl
amh
sme
amh
sna
scn
udm
mdf
hif
dty
eng
lit
lit
tam
slv
cat
tat
mhr
pnb
mya
mhr
cbk
ara
hun
ile
zea
vie
hak
bxr
roh
war
mar
roh
hrv
mri
lug
lez
tel
krc
dty
tur
zea
mai
glk
glg
aym
cbk
bxr
cat
nob
aze
egl
ltg
jbo
bho
mya
scn
tam
myv
wln
lug
lit
udm
snd
jbo
kom
jav
tet
cdo
pus
bar
tgl
hsb
gag
hrv
eus
mya
afr
glv
dsb
krc
lmo
hat
dsb
kat
snd
bjn
map-bms
spa
kat
mai
hak
mon
yid
min
cdo
zea
fao
pfl
bar
grn
sqi
cos
wln
amh
koi
nap
que
pol
dsb
pus
amh
asm
ita
als
mon
map-bms
scn
hsb
uig
que
bar
kom
eng
mal
ksh
lat
oci
sna
sgs
deu
pus
nan
pnb
hat
slk
oss
pdc
mya
mya
nds
lav
ron
fry
koi
est
sgs
lug
deu
nav
bod
bpy
cos
rup
fas
khm
kom
bcl
nno
egl
nep
dsb
war
hak
ukr
csb
ces
dsb
pap
war
sgs
msa
nds
ces
bxr
nno
fry
por
mlg
sgs
spa
mlt
ile
bcl
ast
slk
ton
bar
dty
isl
vol
fra
pfl
lug
lit
gle
gag
jpn
pap
srn
ang
lmo
kin
aze
bel
pan
est
rus
fur
swe
vep
ces
pap
fas
bod
kom
rue
hak
kat
pdc
lez
orm
dsb
urd
nso
kaz
bod
srd
san
rus
cym
bar
frp
stq
ton
nds-nl
mai
mal
sna
lao
div
tha
eus
pfl
gag
udm
egl
fin
gla
fin
cdo
ace
ind
srd
tgl
bxr
nep
snd
ell
hif
nan
rup
war
nap
hin
cbk
zea
ara
est
bel
bpy
hsb
pfl
mri
bel
mdf
dan
sme
fas
sme
xho
eus
lat
bel
sna
ron
por
epo
lmo
cbk
hrv
ava
bre
tam
xho
bcl
lug
kin
krc
nds-nl
lmo
roa-tara
ton
jpn
mdf
pam
rue
wln
srd
tyv
tel
hat
pdc
bho
cbk
hbs
oci
pnb
mai
yid
kan
bel
srn
tgl
tet
por
olo
fra
cdo
vep
srp
pam
gag
koi
vol
nep
dty
csb
mya
nld
rus
nan
nav
fao
ava
ell
cos
ton
lav
slv
ind
por
csb
yid
rus
yid
pap
ina
ron
vie
sco
pfl
tha
asm
gla
mwl
epo
arg
grn
hsb
hrv
tel
bcl
gag
bar
epo
ast
mwl
bul
mon
cdo
olo
mhr
scn
aze
pus
pus
mdf
ori
ile
por
tyv
ace
xmf
rup
lav
mkd
nds-nl
xho
lad
glg
kan
hun
bel
vls
kor
uig
lav
war
aym
che
pus
sqi
sin
lav
fas
dan
bpy
ita
krc
nob
ell
swe
bel
bpy
swe
spa
roh
min
kor
kom
cos
cat
hif
pfl
gla
dty
pap
ina
kaz
mon
ast
bxr
fur
khm
fra
ron
hsb
pag
bel
ces
hun
cat
kom
nld
lad
ibo
sco
nap
lez
dty
hif
wln
hif
vie
pan
vol
zea
koi
sin
dty
nan
ckb
dsb
pcd
kbd
mon
pap
oss
gla
ckb
pap
hin
mri
gla
srn
bpy
nds-nl
kbd
bjn
nob
urd
glg
cat
war
ara
cos
ces
mlg
bjn
cor
ext
ind
guj
swe
vol
arg
als
swa
tam
div
jav
xho
lrc
kor
deu
roa-tara
hrv
cym
est
cym
ava
lez
min
rup
fin
hrv
hin
roh
ext
tha
fas
snd
glk
ibo
udm
ext
aze
sna
jbo
mlt
fao
san
ace
kin
pan
lmo
crh
pcd
als
bod
lmo
pan
kaz
hin
pfl
kan
orm
scn
cos
koi
nso
kom
egl
kat
sqi
map-bms
khm
bar
tgl
sgs
mar
oci
tgl
cos
cdo
uig
pus
fin
pfl
afr
ibo
dan
mwl
sqi
kaz
ori
ces
kin
kbd
nso
sna
cos
pnb
snd
lao
msa
kor
kom
mlt
oci
mkd
sna
ile
yid
ace
uig
csb
spa
snd
ita
ava
vol
lim
bho
frp
ell
lez
ang
ton
bpy
ext
fry
ton
slk
ile
cbk
lad
fra
kor
als
tgl
bjn
eng
mri
mdf
kaz
pap
nan
crh
mri
swa
udm
ace
che
ell
nrm
fas
ckb
que
bjn
nld
uig
kan
lav
nds-nl
pap
fry
krc
pol
aym
mhr
ori
new
nno
asm
eus
min
bxr
vls
bar
ava
oss
fao
kin
san
wln
ext
lav
tcy
aym
tur
pan
rup
aze
krc
isl
kan
ile
glv
ace
hin
nav
rue
tcy
fry
khm
por
als
ava
mya
ile
olo
csb
mal
ell
egl
rup
nan
nep
mon
jpn
scn
pan
grn
kin
lin
nno
dan
olo
rus
ibo
crh
ron
amh
ang
myv
mri
kaz
tam
kbd
est
gag
tel
pol
vep
jbo
tet
mal
nrm
lrc
tgl
srp
vls
che
zea
bod
srd
isl
ast
roa-tara
asm
vol
krc
roh
pan
bxr
ace
ava
ind
frp
ksh
bre
mlt
kaz
xho
roh
che
pol
pnb
spa
spa
ina
hun
nob
glg
hye
aym
jav
jav
hbs
fra
fin
guj
nob
gla
bel
map-bms
nds
hye
cym
koi
tam
srp
egl
ori
hif
jbo
fin
eng
che
pan
nep
map-bms
sna
hun
tgl
lim
uig
yid
ksh
frp
nan
war
aze
war
isl
hye
pan
aze
urd
nan
olo
lad
hak
ind
sin
kor
mhr
kom
ava
ron
epo
krc
ang
hun
nds
sme
ast
asm
aym
nno
tcy
afr
ext
jbo
mhr
dty
isl
amh
crh
roa-tara
hsb
map-bms
pfl
ell
ori
snd
rus
fin
msa
mwl
krc
kaz
kaz
eus
arg
tet
mal
kor
nap
mal
cat
gag
nds-nl
jav
cym
srn
que
ile
pus
epo
pus
mri
mwl
yid
kom
ckb
tha
hbs
ksh
lad
cdo
bar
hbs
hun
hin
dsb
cos
glk
ara
kom
bod
nld
slv
dan
ara
tat
ava
ron
mal
lim
roh
srn
cym
eng
cor
lit
ind
mlt
pnb
glk
jbo
crh
cym
vol
nds
kbd
fra
hun
nno
stq
hif
nav
nob
arg
pdc
mwl
hbs
sin
ori
rup
crh
map-bms
tur
cdo
che
egl
fur
hif
arg
ckb
csb
asm
bpy
hak
kaz
ita
jpn
pam
nds
hif
krc
vls
mwl
aym
kbd
amh
ina
isl
frp
ori
msa
mal
bjn
bre
mkd
bjn
que
tat
aze
pol
cor
vls
nds-nl
est
fry
eus
rup
mkd
spa
hsb
ron
mlt
hif
ron
ara
mdf
myv
che
bho
bar
bho
ukr
ori
crh
nso
ind
kor
nap
cym
pdc
ext
ckb
swe
tur
est
lim
crh
lit
mal
slk
swa
isl
rup
glk
swe
hsb
als
tet
pfl
vol
nrm
war
ltg
glv
bod
mwl
nob
swe
sgs
nap
hak
spa
ina
pcd
ces
nrm
ckb
lao
ara
cor
mon
mhr
hrv
hif
hif
war
glk
lug
hif
fry
lug
gla
mar
amh
ron
msa
bod
bho
lim
tur
lug
que
xho
hsb
tet
oci
fin
sgs
hrv
als
csb
map-bms
mlg
gla
dty
mdf
nso
ace
kat
bho
snd
kbd
map-bms
lug
kaz
ksh
tcy
vol
sna
kom
che
nno
fra
tha
arg
nep
kaz
vol
nno
rue
afr
kin
lav
nds-nl
slv
bjn
asm
bre
vep
sco
lit
mri
dsb
lat
nep
tam
dsb
lim
uig
glv
vls
tcy
glg
mkd
nld
ces
tcy
fao
nrm
csb
eng
fao
fao
mai
mkd
vls
hat
lin
bar
msa
kan
kbd
pol
lug
tur
udm
lez
mon
roh
jpn
nep
aym
dty
slv
orm
kbd
hye
fao
tur
ind
jbo
hun
nob
asm
sqi
fur
bel
gle
oci
amh
frp
scn
kan
deu
pdc
ita
nap
srd
hat
lrc
rup
ron
rup
pdc
tsn
olo
koi
tcy
frp
lit
nan
lat
hat
gla
ara
ces
lav
nso
map-bms
hat
nrm
nrm
mya
epo
ksh
als
hsb
bjn
jav
tat
tsn
aym
xmf
jav
vie
san
nno
fin
dan
nds
san
scn
nap
epo
eus
roh
vls
nds-nl
bcl
fas
pcd
dty
orm
yid
orm
tam
olo
epo
kor
tat
bho
slk
hin
urd
bre
swa
wln
aze
slk
snd
bxr
tam
als
tet
mon
pol
ina
asm
glv
ace
gag
myv
tur
nds-nl
lit
afr
yid
lao
map-bms
mwl
hak
hak
lad
que
tet
bho
be-tarask
hif
lav
kbd
srn
lin
lin
mhr
dsb
mlt
ind
lav
gag
slv
cat
mal
ukr
nep
pdc
ton
tat
guj
lad
sna
ori
ltg
rus
lez
nap
pnb
mon
hye
gag
ast
grn
lad
glg
swe
pdc
oss
pan
ara
xmf
hsb
krc
ltg
epo
rup
pus
ltg
snd
tyv
ace
kbd
rue
cbk
est
ton
uig
kom
fra
ang
ron
isl
kin
lit
ori
asm
hin
est
ton
por
kor
por
cdo
spa
egl
cbk
eus
ceb
asm
srn
tur
xho
spa
dan
ibo
srn
lez
kom
cbk
lrc
nds-nl
ton
lim
kom
lad
orm
bjn
swa
sgs
rue
gla
lez
mya
lrc
amh
ksh
isl
map-bms
nav
ang
snd
gag
ksh
zea
jbo
be-tarask
ces
div
pam
hin
glk
tat
mlt
nap
nno
srn
lit
tcy
gla
bpy
war
kom
gle
war
lug
wln
mdf
rup
nds-nl
myv
kaz
ace
mkd
ina
sco
crh
tel
rue
jav
tcy
vie
xmf
hrv
epo
lav
mon
pag
dan
ang
ind
mai
pus
swe
lao
nno
wln
tel
pap
kaz
zea
ext
lad
nob
ksh
roh
slv
mai
tsn
roh
asm
cym
kan
por
nds-nl
swe
jpn
ron
yid
ron
rue
jav
pfl
mon
mon
nep
dty
dan
olo
hbs
pol
be-tarask
snd
mri
deu
hsb
arg
pus
lav
fin
hbs
kat
fao
ton
cym
lez
bar
mar
mya
mkd
bjn
ell
tcy
ext
tel
lin
jav
ukr
lad
lug
lrc
slv
ast
asm
pam
bar
por
lao
epo
ckb
epo
ltg
rup
uig
ton
hun
spa
ckb
hin
grn
rus
mri
srn
snd
new
est
mal
tsn
als
mwl
lug
nso
lao
lug
swa
kin
bre
hak
div
xmf
hif
oci
sqi
hrv
hye
dsb
vie
spa
scn
koi
srp
mlg
slk
eus
dty
fin
amh
pfl
cbk
pol
fur
jav
kin
msa
hin
fur
bxr
glk
cdo
lat
hbs
hat
pdc
cat
nso
zea
asm
arg
ton
ita
sme
nds-nl
ckb
fry
jbo
que
hbs
tel
pam
fas
hrv
hin
san
lim
dsb
div
jav
ori
nav
lmo
gle
lin
roa-tara
sgs
lad
sco
kbd
uig
slv
udm
sin
jav
lav
kbd
lit
hun
sco
kan
vep
hin
oss
olo
ace
gle
hsb
mai
nan
vep
nan
lug
pan
tyv
srn
cat
ind
slk
tel
ext
cat
aym
oss
bpy
hsb
roh
mai
xmf
cym
uig
srp
oci
pdc
nds
mlg
pan
fur
mal
hif
mkd
nds-nl
tcy
sco
cym
lit
fas
hat
ukr
kan
ces
swe
roh
bcl
bar
gag
pnb
xho
deu
nld
pag
swe
hak
est
cat
grn
nav
div
rup
hin
ksh
epo
que
mlg
sgs
rup
srd
cym
mwl
fry
ile
mwl
mlg
urd
xmf
dty
dty
asm
zea
mon
hrv
gle
yid
zea
mlg
ang
ava
fin
pam
rup
ind
fry
lat
deu
vls
tat
snd
kbd
uig
cdo
ceb
mri
ava
hun
ltg
pap
glv
ina
spa
eng
srd
khm
rus
cdo
slk
cdo
kom
tyv
egl
nob
nds
pol
mya
ast
war
cos
aym
guj
amh
fry
cdo
slk
zea
als
swe
snd
che
pam
aze
yid
mar
hsb
olo
new
stq
nds-nl
est
mdf
ace
mon
cdo
asm
bpy
swe
fao
lin
tyv
deu
stq
asm
bjn
hin
mar
mai
olo
ace
oci
ile
ltg
ang
ceb
ita
sme
tcy
tam
ind
csb
map-bms
xmf
oci
yid
ava
isl
nso
lmo
nap
isl
hye
glk
tat
tet
ina
cat
mar
aym
ces
nan
cos
aym
lat
uig
gle
jav
map-bms
snd
ckb
yid
nds-nl
srd
min
bho
che
tyv
map-bms
rue
sco
sna
arg
tam
fry
uig
yid
tsn
bar
slk
mal
kbd
lug
ces
hin
min
kan
cat
fao
zea
lug
ina
spa
ile
ukr
cat
jpn
mkd
tha
bxr
srd
rue
mhr
min
als
ton
ckb
olo
xmf
kat
krc
ang
tat
zea
khm
mlg
mya
ton
fry
msa
mlg
lug
bcl
swe
ksh
pdc
mya
ind
dsb
sme
hsb
kin
urd
glv
fra
por
bjn
tel
est
swa
ceb
lad
che
ckb
ext
kaz
epo
ita
new
myv
rup
lit
ace
glg
wln
ast
ceb
oss
sin
mkd
ibo
koi
als
mhr
bre
ast
ava
mya
kaz
cdo
eng
dty
fry
tat
tyv
bxr
kor
aze
ltg
lrc
uig
tet
ckb
kat
pnb
hak
gle
jbo
bho
scn
nno
lmo
bpy
spa
bod
scn
mon
bel
ara
nep
zea
hin
uig
ell
ile
bcl
bcl
cos
bho
jbo
dsb
afr
che
mri
crh
hak
bho
nds
hak
khm
nrm
bod
lav
csb
mri
crh
nan
hif
mri
tha
kat
ron
lug
krc
tha
lao
kaz
bpy
uig
zea
ltg
bar
vls
ksh
egl
isl
nds
isl
tyv
ile
cbk
scn
orm
crh
kan
ang
mal
tcy
ind
nrm
lav
pfl
msa
slk
ext
oss
jbo
lit
ell
ton
tyv
srn
dty
hsb
sgs
kor
pag
tet
roh
gle
glk
cym
eng
ace
tam
ceb
tat
lrc
fur
scn
mlg
afr
bre
bel
pan
cdo
lad
frp
myv
ina
amh
bul
hin
ron
afr
lav
pfl
nld
tgl
hbs
hsb
aym
dan
jbo
be-tarask
eus
ibo
oss
ang
mya
arg
epo
pag
gle
ell
est
vol
hrv
lug
cbk
san
bod
crh
scn
est
ces
oss
dty
ksh
crh
jav
div
sin
sco
hun
lat
ina
sna
pag
myv
jav
fas
ces
dan
fur
cor
ina
san
lit
slk
swe
nob
pdc
sme
nap
ibo
ceb
epo
mon
hat
bar
ext
nds
pdc
rus
bul
por
mar
nds-nl
pcd
udm
eus
kaz
gle
ces
spa
ang
hrv
gle
olo
lug
jav
amh
dty
kat
kor
ceb
arg
fur
fry
crh
glv
oss
bcl
map-bms
khm
hat
khm
bho
gag
mya
san
glv
mai
nan
bar
udm
pam
mar
sin
bcl
hin
ell
tha
ltg
arg
hin
srp
bcl
isl
ton
ces
kbd
bcl
hsb
min
aym
lav
sna
pnb
pap
hat
bcl
csb
lug
aze
slk
sqi
lmo
eus
nob
sgs
kan
aym
tel
por
rue
jbo
hrv
san
slv
bre
glv
crh
ton
fra
mkd
xho
fry
sme
pcd
por
ceb
tha
hat
crh
nap
kan
pag
tel
nno
hrv
vep
vep
fas
ext
div
ces
rue
bre
bre
kaz
nno
gag
hat
pam
mlg
kin
hat
als
pag
glg
oss
msa
sgs
glk
kaz
bod
nso
lim
roa-tara
nld
fra
oss
mkd
lrc
xho
tsn
vls
vep
kan
war
nrm
guj
srp
be-tarask
urd
ang
nap
myv
nno
ltg
kaz
xho
lug
fry
srn
hin
ltg
tha
udm
nan
wln
fas
lav
srn
isl
sco
krc
lad
rue
kan
fra
pfl
bre
tcy
pus
krc
koi
pnb
csb
frp
als
fin
vie
pag
tur
spa
udm
ind
tcy
tgl
ltg
pnb
tcy
egl
fry
mhr
fur
glg
new
dsb
vls
kin
kan
ibo
grn
nds
tgl
jpn
tel
tam
ceb
tat
bpy
bod
che
kaz
scn
urd
slv
tat
mlg
ina
mwl
bxr
kor
frp
div
aze
hun
ext
ksh
mai
ksh
fas
ckb
ksh
kat
zea
swa
hin
ara
asm
roa-tara
ind
sqi
ukr
afr
oss
dty
pap
kor
est
jbo
sco
mlt
csb
sna
pfl
rus
kin
ton
kat
nob
lin
kin
kat
pap
tgl
sme
deu
mal
epo
krc
zea
fur
mar
pnb
fur
oci
hrv
tat
kom
est
tam
fao
ang
sqi
sgs
mdf
krc
lao
bel
sin
swe
cat
yid
lit
hak
vol
bcl
nob
afr
zea
nob
roa-tara
kom
aze
new
ita
slv
snd
gla
ukr
egl
grn
nep
kom
bho
ckb
pag
mar
lez
arg
bpy
nds-nl
deu
kor
crh
bxr
nep
dan
scn
ces
tur
dty
nno
nap
lav
hsb
cor
fas
tet
tur
srd
hin
ita
vie
grn
hsb
sna
tcy
hun
mal
nan
lao
nso
cdo
khm
mwl
map-bms
gag
mri
ita
bod
lao
nds-nl
hak
kbd
uig
pfl
hat
tel
be-tarask
sin
amh
mlg
pfl
myv
hak
mhr
ang
egl
kin
ces
sna
eus
gag
lmo
uig
swa
glg
hin
pap
yid
che
glk
aze
rus
glk
pan
fry
slk
bre
lin
aym
mon
pam
asm
gag
zea
kan
pfl
rue
tam
kat
fry
uig
hye
cdo
uig
hat
fra
bar
nap
sin
sme
glk
mal
bod
nds
pol
pam
als
gag
dsb
khm
est
cdo
orm
nap
slk
dsb
hsb
glv
tel
epo
ile
new
slk
jbo
kor
dsb
mhr
lrc
mlt
div
nan
lmo
spa
min
olo
nrm
tyv
ina
tyv
bul
mya
ara
cat
aym
srp
dty
roa-tara
kor
hak
bre
asm
mlt
zea
swa
hbs
mlg
pap
cym
est
tsn
gle
ext
tet
bod
hif
mya
mlt
yid
gag
ukr
pam
mar
lmo
scn
nep
mkd
fin
hak
bar
dsb
lav
pag
tet
aze
slk
bar
mdf
hat
sco
cdo
tsn
sna
cos
hbs
xmf
div
bxr
hsb
ind
guj
swa
ita
ang
dan
ckb
sco
lin
dan
mar
mri
mar
ang
amh
war
stq
srd
ces
crh
roa-tara
grn
vep
slk
sin
bcl
lug
cos
fin
hif
swe
cym
yid
als
nds
ast
scn
cym
ell
ile
mdf
lit
vep
pus
slv
eng
hif
map-bms
fry
arg
fur
hye
pdc
cdo
ava
sna
pag
guj
scn
hsb
mai
ell
ceb
kbd
mwl
amh
nep
por
fin
ile
rup
fao
wln
dsb
que
nrm
rus
srd
jpn
che
lrc
bjn
lao
bxr
gle
aze
crh
wln
cor
glv
scn
pdc
ton
slk
map-bms
tet
lat
mdf
nno
asm
bpy
mwl
bpy
mya
kin
orm
mri
mya
bpy
mon
bar
bjn
ceb
ina
orm
glk
spa
tha
jbo
est
pfl
tur
nds-nl
krc
ita
frp
bcl
hye
tam
koi
koi
nld
msa
sme
mdf
bul
lit
lim
xho
bul
bre
swa
lat
dan
ori
olo
amh
krc
mri
urd
bpy
bel
sgs
nds
pfl
lav
bpy
spa
ind
ast
mlt
mai
oss
bre
sin
lez
mar
roa-tara
kom
bpy
aym
nld
be-tarask
khm
udm
sna
roa-tara
mya
nan
nob
pfl
lao
bxr
mwl
als
oss
orm
bod
orm
snd
be-tarask
tha
khm
ckb
tsn
nno
myv
scn
nrm
grn
sna
snd
vep
lmo
hin
fra
jbo
dty
fas
ind
swe
xho
gle
roh
mar
mya
guj
hbs
tel
glk
gag
hye
san
hif
pol
fas
glk
urd
kin
gla
hak
new
war
ast
srd
nld
jbo
min
epo
bpy
bre
egl
ron
mkd
fur
mlt
sqi
koi
yid
aym
oss
nap
hye
srp
pfl
hbs
cdo
myv
glg
xmf
stq
csb
guj
glk
ibo
slk
scn
khm
mal
por
vie
san
pap
lrc
mwl
est
ind
bod
kan
bcl
hin
pam
nan
fra
fao
asm
olo
csb
hak
ext
hrv
spa
uig
ton
lrc
cym
be-tarask
gle
srd
oci
srp
tur
bul
fas
map-bms
tat
vls
ita
jpn
csb
stq
nan
hbs
ltg
ava
fry
che
sgs
fry
xmf
xmf
hrv
udm
pcd
eus
dan
glk
jav
myv
stq
isl
rue
spa
xho
fur
slv
msa
mar
lav
vep
sme
gla
nso
bpy
epo
new
fra
nno
bpy
nep
slk
kan
map-bms
tet
tgl
swe
ind
ell
dsb
deu
san
be-tarask
hsb
stq
isl
aze
ibo
crh
dan
srn
tgl
srp
nld
yid
glv
nld
nso
ton
tyv
yid
ava
eng
eng
ava
bel
kom
lav
scn
fin
yid
ace
vol
ext
egl
vol
epo
nno
tam
yid
sna
tyv
pam
cos
egl
mwl
dan
grn
lin
lez
war
hak
lmo
lit
epo
slk
hye
swe
ava
dty
oss
lav
kaz
tet
jbo
glv
cor
ckb
rup
glv
msa
sqi
pag
hbs
jav
div
xmf
dsb
nav
tel
guj
lim
bel
srd
mlg
tet
swa
jpn
cor
tel
san
bul
grn
bpy
pdc
new
lav
amh
mkd
krc
tur
mar
tat
dty
bel
koi
vls
ava
urd
bar
hbs
amh
kor
cdo
lit
tha
wln
nob
ton
kom
ksh
est
bel
cym
lim
nan
bel
mlg
afr
nep
glv
lez
grn
mri
xmf
lad
nds-nl
nob
lim
dan
cym
nob
spa
ina
kor
krc
zea
tam
ibo
slk
mar
pus
pfl
guj
slk
ile
orm
lug
wln
ita
krc
lit
sqi
ell
sme
ina
mhr
tur
ind
cbk
kin
spa
sco
pus
roa-tara
mal
mkd
ces
slk
mri
mal
afr
olo
lao
koi
lez
frp
nds-nl
stq
vep
hsb
ang
frp
csb
tel
sqi
mon
kaz
lim
eng
gle
bpy
pus
lez
mhr
vie
ckb
est
msa
swa
mwl
lat
lin
bul
roa-tara
cym
orm
fur
mon
ces
msa
tgl
hbs
ext
vie
msa
snd
lrc
swa
tur
fao
grn
nrm
swa
tyv
gla
ina
new
oci
mon
bul
guj
dty
sco
hun
ksh
grn
pol
rup
be-tarask
frp
cor
war
cor
gle
kom
mwl
afr
xmf
dsb
ron
kom
afr
cym
sgs
xmf
dan
mhr
tha
bjn
kbd
xmf
srp
udm
tsn
guj
lao
scn
rus
udm
pan
lez
cat
hrv
pol
nds
dty
nno
cym
nep
khm
nob
mkd
war
ext
min
fry
gla
ibo
pam
ckb
nep
est
ava
pfl
cor
map-bms
ile
rus
tgl
che
tam
bpy
ksh
eng
glg
nds
cym
rue
xho
san
tel
orm
roh
slk
cym
isl
wln
grn
tur
srn
tcy
pam
ast
lit
tur
pcd
tyv
als
bod
ang
ext
gle
pol
uig
glk
xmf
lat
be-tarask
kan
ckb
eus
aym
fra
nld
grn
isl
glg
hsb
olo
oci
tha
kaz
ksh
snd
ext
lez
war
amh
roa-tara
bod
nrm
rue
tur
lad
gla
deu
pag
fin
swa
sme
urd
nds
est
hat
pcd
krc
war
fra
swe
hat
por
wln
nan
tat
mri
ton
pag
vls
fry
ksh
nds-nl
por
khm
lrc
deu
olo
mlg
bar
epo
mlt
ace
sin
bul
bod
gag
hsb
mhr
aym
stq
lit
ckb
mai
ina
asm
spa
fur
fas
kom
fin
lim
roa-tara
sme
cor
cym
kaz
glg
ukr
zea
lez
als
tel
ces
zea
dsb
urd
mlg
kbd
lez
swe
lad
ksh
mai
eng
tam
vls
fas
olo
pcd
fra
nrm
crh
che
tel
cor
pan
ind
new
ina
ina
hrv
cat
jpn
khm
srp
tgl
hif
kbd
mdf
deu
hak
bel
srd
bel
ceb
tet
swa
nds
orm
csb
vie
deu
be-tarask
ace
tgl
yid
hbs
grn
kor
tel
lim
ang
cbk
myv
fra
msa
snd
stq
est
ang
asm
est
srn
xho
udm
vol
kin
urd
tsn
sgs
glk
new
khm
tcy
srn
kbd
dan
egl
scn
nso
glg
ind
sme
amh
map-bms
est
pcd
nep
snd
tam
kor
nap
bul
ava
ang
lad
sgs
ext
bcl
tcy
amh
guj
isl
ksh
hat
kbd
zea
mya
dan
jav
olo
ell
zea
hrv
tha
mlg
kat
ina
glk
ind
hat
nld
stq
eus
sna
ind
pag
che
pnb
aze
ell
bpy
vep
min
cdo
arg
nld
bho
tcy
krc
bod
gag
ces
deu
lrc
fra
hbs
tha
fry
ita
lin
dsb
msa
jpn
msa
aym
tyv
kbd
wln
bxr
cym
pfl
bel
eng
mlt
lav
mdf
tet
hin
sna
ina
dsb
ibo
sin
war
ell
lat
fry
cdo
nan
ibo
kom
ita
fra
ara
koi
mai
lrc
ckb
mya
mkd
pag
roh
nrm
cat
fas
war
xho
aym
srn
mya
bcl
dan
arg
glg
lao
tet
sco
hye
udm
pdc
rus
ava
yid
bpy
kom
bpy
ast
udm
snd
hrv
krc
dsb
por
crh
lat
ast
deu
mai
be-tarask
nan
uig
fry
glv
jpn
mdf
nep
asm
cat
mhr
hak
hak
bod
fin
eus
kom
mkd
bod
hye
snd
pdc
pag
new
snd
nrm
mlg
mai
che
glg
koi
eng
glg
ind
bpy
be-tarask
cbk
sqi
mai
eng
olo
xho
fin
vie
tet
udm
por
deu
cym
hsb
lug
lez
als
hrv
ibo
sgs
lat
est
hak
tgl
snd
lit
lug
udm
xho
que
san
tet
bul
kan
bho
vls
ceb
pol
asm
myv
ara
rue
eus
roa-tara
por
kaz
tur
war
mlt
glg
vep
gag
que
mkd
ang
mhr
frp
tsn
srn
glg
hif
mdf
lin
pol
ukr
che
cbk
spa
mri
cor
khm
war
isl
ori
lmo
new
new
hat
gle
hbs
tat
egl
roh
bcl
kan
sme
rup
gag
bxr
ksh
snd
be-tarask
cos
bar
snd
cbk
pam
vep
uig
tel
nds-nl
lat
bul
min
koi
msa
urd
cat
ckb
tam
slv
lim
vol
ton
rus
lav
hun
slk
hun
isl
khm
kan
eus
ang
rus
nds-nl
lmo
pus
stq
krc
deu
vep
udm
kbd
scn
srn
pam
lat
lad
cat
deu
glv
dty
hin
lmo
que
hat
fur
nld
srp
hsb
xmf
grn
sme
sme
jbo
uig
oss
nan
swa
mdf
ina
nap
spa
ces
ace
tel
ckb
khm
sme
vls
yid
ast
pol
nap
new
swe
hif
crh
ara
uig
afr
tel
srn
slv
ast
lez
ita
ltg
bxr
jbo
pag
ile
dan
fra
cor
bjn
koi
hsb
vol
fra
sin
kaz
sin
glg
pnb
orm
amh
isl
arg
frp
olo
yid
slk
hrv
mkd
be-tarask
srp
glg
vls
als
est
kat
hat
asm
swa
sco
tha
nan
asm
dan
hsb
mya
pdc
tet
kin
cbk
lav
nob
udm
min
rue
bre
mon
ara
hat
kin
msa
cos
rue
hat
tur
cat
lao
ces
mon
tel
oci
tgl
guj
cat
kbd
bar
ast
myv
mlt
tel
wln
cat
slk
csb
fin
lad
crh
ina
csb
nds-nl
koi
ast
min
pcd
div
fin
dan
mkd
ast
cbk
srd
aze
mhr
lmo
hbs
ibo
kan
bpy
hsb
ceb
oci
mai
srn
mya
pap
pfl
pnb
kan
als
spa
mon
lav
tel
pol
dan
epo
xmf
ara
fin
mwl
ron
ceb
rus
hrv
urd
nno
lin
mlt
kom
fao
ace
lug
mal
wln
dty
tcy
ukr
csb
mhr
glk
slk
cbk
vie
fur
pfl
ile
zea
isl
mwl
isl
ile
jbo
glv
dan
srn
lit
dan
bho
ukr
isl
pnb
srd
fra
bod
nds-nl
mya
vie
tel
lad
srd
bxr
tel
glv
ceb
sqi
bjn
rue
nob
mon
vep
vls
kor
dty
pap
tyv
vol
cat
lin
mri
kom
div
tha
mal
bjn
sin
oci
nav
aze
sgs
mri
bcl
mlt
nan
pag
tcy
mlg
msa
yid
tel
mya
tur
sgs
nno
sna
sgs
nld
mya
mri
ava
rue
wln
asm
vol
nds
pnb
udm
mri
nds
lav
deu
ext
tel
roh
nav
srp
nob
fin
asm
hrv
frp
ukr
gle
nds-nl
bxr
min
dsb
aym
nob
new
nob
est
pdc
ukr
bcl
mri
tur
ces
msa
oci
orm
fry
ckb
pfl
eus
gag
kom
cbk
khm
por
ava
cor
lmo
asm
pdc
lao
ita
ltg
deu
tsn
tel
aym
est
mar
khm
srn
ron
hin
san
tyv
aze
nob
bpy
fur
mlt
als
pol
deu
msa
isl
roa-tara
rup
kat
myv
urd
srp
map-bms
ext
ceb
koi
sgs
lat
nds
est
bre
nob
wln
eng
ell
fin
vls
sna
be-tarask
oci
olo
afr
roa-tara
dty
tel
msa
kom
jbo
fas
lat
tcy
cbk
snd
roa-tara
hat
pdc
kat
ltg
ori
est
nav
egl
hrv
fas
kan
ace
bar
kom
srn
pag
pan
ceb
vol
ang
oci
orm
cos
tat
lav
mlg
scn
dan
hif
dty
ita
guj
wln
deu
vls
glg
tur
nds-nl
tcy
tha
nan
pus
epo
tyv
hsb
kin
isl
bel
aym
new
ext
que
nav
myv
epo
ton
hrv
lin
kan
nrm
ton
mhr
afr
hye
min
tsn
fin
sgs
mhr
csb
sgs
ell
lav
pag
vie
ell
rue
lug
crh
krc
mwl
ces
deu
scn
lao
mar
dty
arg
isl
lrc
sqi
hun
vol
est
mhr
pap
mdf
cos
hsb
bho
oci
pol
msa
msa
nep
pus
bho
sgs
lav
slk
hin
scn
por
hat
pcd
kbd
tam
tyv
lit
gle
tyv
stq
nob
bpy
olo
nds-nl
koi
lin
bcl
cbk
dsb
tet
ang
srp
map-bms
ara
lao
ext
pap
lav
rue
cdo
ron
ksh
fur
lav
crh
bar
fra
rup
tha
div
nds-nl
bre
wln
cym
slv
tel
bpy
pan
fas
sme
lad
wln
nno
ksh
msa
pnb
kbd
koi
kat
ast
lrc
aym
lug
dty
eng
bel
ace
ckb
sgs
kom
mlt
nav
cbk
ile
guj
oss
lez
ava
dty
nso
sgs
vls
cos
sqi
kom
lmo
tur
fas
lad
myv
pcd
xmf
nav
kin
srp
lin
csb
kat
nld
pan
mon
bel
bel
nds-nl
tam
mai
fao
bul
ces
slv
hye
cym
lad
pfl
crh
bjn
ron
vls
khm
kbd
kom
bxr
ace
xmf
sco
yid
hbs
xmf
mwl
ceb
eus
csb
gag
bod
bcl
frp
kaz
pol
mlt
bcl
krc
mhr
gag
bul
gag
lez
kor
orm
jav
lin
spa
mar
sqi
stq
mwl
crh
tur
nds
tcy
ace
zea
nso
pol
kor
scn
uig
bpy
kaz
bcl
aym
fry
ell
rue
sco
msa
ava
pol
oss
koi
kan
fin
mkd
mdf
hbs
vie
srd
nap
eus
myv
koi
hbs
ton
aze
msa
orm
ina
koi
orm
por
bho
cbk
kin
uig
nds-nl
epo
csb
kbd
koi
wln
bel
cdo
pag
hbs
mar
ckb
mai
jpn
mwl
slk
glg
div
tha
cos
lad
xho
csb
vep
roa-tara
csb
tgl
bpy
epo
lug
gla
bho
uig
dsb
koi
krc
vep
tam
fry
fry
lim
sna
nap
nno
olo
ron
pag
ace
map-bms
lim
ace
div
tel
arg
nav
urd
koi
map-bms
pus
ava
cym
bpy
frp
nno
swe
bpy
lit
cat
frp
kbd
mhr
grn
koi
tat
mlg
swe
uig
ksh
olo
ava
tat
guj
que
glv
vep
mai
ckb
oci
lez
map-bms
pnb
cym
hin
ast
fry
lao
bul
ltg
khm
lug
pag
est
hat
sme
bul
kin
slv
nds-nl
hin
lav
vol
vie
xmf
lim
cdo
ori
glk
fur
grn
ltg
wln
tam
ukr
khm
slv
guj
hsb
mlg
urd
ton
mal
san
cos
vls
srd
vol
fao
vie
bar
kat
tet
xho
glg
jav
ang
fry
guj
aze
lav
tel
lmo
lad
hif
isl
kor
san
uig
ind
ace
nob
lit
fur
hif
stq
lao
tam
pol
bho
por
sqi
kaz
cdo
aym
dan
ina
roa-tara
dan
spa
nan
mkd
pol
sin
fra
ltg
udm
gle
dan
rup
sco
eus
ces
gle
nld
ast
lug
krc
bxr
hak
pap
war
ast
fra
kan
yid
lad
cos
hin
guj
egl
frp
por
epo
krc
nap
afr
afr
lmo
mdf
nap
ast
myv
mlg
wln
cbk
spa
tat
rue
pap
eus
ell
scn
gla
ext
myv
lug
mkd
arg
ara
mar
gla
yid
kor
lav
kat
roh
nob
ltg
bre
hif
dsb
hun
pam
vie
wln
yid
sqi
tcy
snd
cym
mal
deu
nrm
swe
srp
swa
lad
jav
lrc
mya
ton
hat
rue
pag
eus
hak
hak
bel
vls
map-bms
zea
dsb
hin
olo
sqi
ces
mri
mal
cym
cat
snd
pcd
sgs
ita
dan
cat
que
che
ext
ara
dty
ltg
fin
eus
snd
bod
che
csb
cor
hye
lrc
pcd
nno
aym
hbs
san
eng
fao
div
ltg
ceb
che
bar
ceb
mal
div
sgs
por
hin
tel
bre
hsb
fra
ell
lmo
nds
ckb
ace
cbk
nap
csb
dan
pam
ell
srp
nno
sme
tam
mlt
swe
mlt
udm
glg
ext
isl
lez
gla
oci
dan
rue
kat
est
nep
ang
nep
xho
khm
frp
nno
bul
vep
rue
eus
pnb
mkd
tel
bcl
ina
roa-tara
fry
nld
asm
new
nld
myv
lez
glg
hif
csb
bxr
bcl
ara
bxr
krc
nav
mlt
gle
vep
ceb
mlg
fas
que
lav
cbk
egl
oss
est
slv
pam
por
lit
cdo
udm
tam
cbk
ind
be-tarask
hrv
mai
lat
nso
fur
lav
que
arg
guj
hin
eng
vls
aze
mya
ita
tgl
hrv
ton
kbd
orm
kat
ori
ltg
asm
cat
pnb
guj
olo
mlg
nav
vie
spa
min
ita
ace
deu
frp
ori
amh
urd
fin
mhr
pnb
swa
csb
fas
wln
hrv
sme
rus
eng
lad
urd
nno
ile
hye
ckb
lit
glg
nso
mal
frp
san
vie
mlg
fin
mwl
ina
nld
bre
ara
kan
snd
nap
cbk
mwl
sin
nrm
ind
che
xho
glk
asm
pfl
kbd
min
krc
fao
eng
cdo
ast
sco
hye
pag
min
kor
ind
mri
lmo
nav
ell
rup
ara
ell
glk
roa-tara
fur
cos
udm
kin
xmf
amh
war
pag
lav
pdc
slv
sin
urd
kom
vol
mar
pap
jbo
ita
hye
xmf
new
udm
tam
slv
mar
tgl
bxr
hrv
orm
hak
hsb
que
mdf
kor
swe
oss
bcl
kbd
che
fas
fas
cdo
kin
tgl
vls
dan
xmf
hat
bho
nds-nl
mlt
tha
hif
ile
dty
xho
rup
olo
nds
aym
scn
pus
dty
hun
ltg
fry
tyv
tat
xmf
dan
xmf
tgl
kin
pnb
bxr
kin
khm
bar
eus
als
gle
ori
lim
min
hye
gag
ina
ace
ind
war
hun
aze
ace
war
csb
srp
kbd
bjn
bar
mri
nep
mlt
frp
new
aym
ang
glk
spa
sme
olo
jbo
frp
hin
grn
mwl
nso
msa
wln
est
afr
est
be-tarask
fry
egl
pdc
vie
ast
nds
ext
jav
srp
mlg
ang
bjn
ibo
kor
fur
ara
rup
gag
wln
egl
hbs
glv
pfl
roh
ara
dan
mri
nap
lmo
ceb
hun
kan
pol
lav
ina
mar
lmo
pus
frp
cat
myv
egl
afr
mar
nob
lrc
jbo
gle
mwl
glg
ori
bre
aze
snd
khm
war
srd
hbs
srn
hun
swe
eng
glk
dsb
mri
que
hin
roh
hat
mkd
kat
guj
grn
rup
pap
pfl
mon
yid
lin
ces
arg
aym
tcy
srp
amh
grn
bar
kat
ell
spa
aym
afr
ltg
vls
san
bpy
pan
kan
sco
eng
kom
amh
khm
urd
est
mdf
kom
msa
zea
tcy
dty
rue
cbk
rup
csb
bho
che
koi
arg
fin
hbs
hif
tat
tam
hin
tam
ibo
lmo
srp
aym
yid
stq
rup
nld
egl
tcy
uig
bod
eus
tcy
epo
mlg
csb
pus
fin
lav
pag
cym
est
ast
vep
pan
lat
hsb
kor
fas
bre
jav
ibo
oci
kaz
cbk
bpy
frp
pag
fas
mwl
hye
ibo
lad
glk
aym
cbk
bho
bre
nap
glk
nep
nso
sin
map-bms
lao
mar
sgs
lav
vol
bar
kbd
mal
bjn
ara
cym
bxr
oci
orm
mlg
eng
ron
bho
est
sco
epo
oci
cos
gle
swe
kat
kor
mlt
fin
tam
xho
roh
kin
hrv
crh
ces
tur
scn
ceb
dan
glv
aze
wln
afr
bel
swe
ori
fas
bel
mri
stq
pap
gle
bar
ibo
tha
hun
war
pdc
cor
eus
epo
ava
lmo
ori
mri
lmo
kbd
ukr
div
fas
snd
nno
bre
bul
est
wln
cor
yid
myv
khm
swa
asm
afr
swa
nav
egl
bel
uig
mon
glg
ava
dty
nob
por
ukr
frp
nds
nds-nl
new
ori
pam
pap
oci
rue
mlt
pag
kbd
glv
ita
new
hak
mwl
nan
srd
nep
nds
als
nob
glv
lmo
tel
tyv
xmf
kaz
pag
tat
ile
scn
grn
hbs
kin
kin
pol
nep
ext
lit
bxr
nso
lit
bar
cor
als
amh
pdc
pcd
xho
cat
hbs
ckb
glg
srp
gla
kor
nds
kat
deu
tsn
mkd
ukr
fin
sme
bho
nds-nl
hsb
vol
ton
mdf
vie
jbo
kaz
bxr
hak
swa
nrm
be-tarask
oss
que
pnb
egl
glv
isl
jbo
msa
kin
koi
xho
pcd
deu
rup
aym
lez
tur
lin
lin
srp
kaz
kat
oci
gag
tur
tam
bjn
mal
que
isl
ibo
cor
ell
ton
nds
ksh
pnb
lez
tat
lit
san
frp
dan
frp
kaz
map-bms
bjn
kin
udm
stq
koi
swa
mon
lad
sqi
pag
new
aze
ace
myv
fao
bcl
tel
che
vep
glk
mwl
cor
bar
epo
nep
kom
cym
hye
eng
orm
pdc
bpy
urd
dty
srn
fra
fas
stq
stq
yid
aze
glk
ceb
als
xho
eng
vol
ile
kom
kan
srn
sgs
krc
nan
kbd
khm
stq
rup
pus
tha
krc
mya
pnb
epo
fao
san
isl
sqi
cbk
new
lao
slv
pol
tcy
sna
gle
yid
vls
aze
bod
kin
san
swe
eus
pol
tel
ext
hrv
gla
kom
hsb
pcd
swa
wln
gag
ell
epo
sna
cos
eng
war
rus
als
kan
war
bcl
dsb
gag
ast
lit
mwl
als
amh
vol
kat
ind
als
eus
fao
aym
orm
glg
pus
cat
por
mar
aze
mkd
lao
bxr
srn
lmo
ibo
nso
swa
roa-tara
aym
tat
ibo
div
aze
be-tarask
ibo
mhr
glk
kat
bpy
hat
lad
deu
pnb
nrm
nav
min
pam
eng
ile
ron
deu
pcd
lao
pan
udm
oss
div
ckb
nap
xmf
khm
mhr
cor
war
myv
yid
lit
slv
ceb
kat
jav
cdo
bel
ava
map-bms
hrv
sna
mdf
ita
koi
pap
swa
jbo
cym
afr
tet
wln
tcy
sqi
spa
glk
div
snd
pdc
snd
roh
slv
bpy
jbo
kbd
grn
khm
glv
fry
mri
ceb
koi
tur
sme
fin
orm
est
cdo
mwl
yid
cbk
bar
mya
kat
epo
mya
ext
jav
ckb
sin
ava
bho
yid
grn
sco
bar
est
pnb
rue
xho
nob
hrv
tur
tsn
tcy
vep
zea
ton
nan
ksh
arg
jpn
mar
mhr
ext
myv
nav
srn
ron
ton
bxr
glg
udm
nld
nso
fry
lmo
mdf
bcl
fao
nso
msa
stq
kom
csb
pnb
sgs
bod
vep
mwl
scn
tur
mon
glv
cos
isl
hye
oss
hsb
koi
gag
mwl
nep
srp
fra
ukr
ron
vol
spa
scn
glv
lug
ind
tcy
fry
be-tarask
ara
olo
che
tgl
ukr
epo
lrc
be-tarask
ara
sna
bod
cat
crh
fin
glk
afr
oss
cor
cym
kin
bxr
kat
lmo
ina
hak
roh
vol
srp
mwl
pus
div
ava
zea
div
ces
ile
hsb
vep
swe
jbo
myv
ces
pap
mal
rup
ext
kaz
fao
ava
ukr
grn
pus
stq
bre
rup
lug
div
bxr
sna
nds-nl
amh
egl
gag
nno
fur
cos
yid
pfl
aze
olo
lad
aym
jav
als
orm
eus
fao
cym
cbk
ces
gle
zea
koi
cos
epo
sna
bul
ara
crh
tel
lav
nan
min
mkd
mal
csb
dan
lat
pus
kat
bod
pcd
hye
nep
xmf
epo
csb
ckb
ckb
ibo
lad
udm
slk
ara
lao
swe
nso
be-tarask
vls
tyv
ava
kin
sme
nan
tyv
tcy
jpn
mdf
mdf
ibo
csb
sin
cym
ltg
olo
cos
gle
est
che
dan
ltg
tyv
nap
ace
hsb
tgl
ext
kbd
war
khm
bho
mdf
swe
nno
nep
als
pag
tur
san
fas
grn
sna
que
tgl
vie
ell
mlg
mri
tgl
srd
cbk
pcd
por
sgs
yid
nap
srp
hbs
ceb
wln
mya
csb
hun
swa
mkd
mhr
ckb
ara
urd
mya
pag
mya
oss
ara
oci
por
mwl
kom
udm
isl
vie
lad
hin
ces
yid
mlt
ibo
afr
deu
jbo
hye
ksh
krc
glv
be-tarask
oss
fur
lin
scn
hbs
swa
pam
gle
ckb
lat
tat
oci
myv
sco
pol
pdc
bel
kin
nrm
cor
koi
bul
udm
bod
mya
ext
lav
csb
olo
pus
vol
new
yid
ksh
lim
rus
nds-nl
hat
hun
dsb
aze
fas
msa
uig
amh
che
lrc
be-tarask
fry
oci
nds-nl
nap
cdo
tur
ext
nno
nap
tha
jbo
amh
ceb
tsn
mhr
isl
mai
fur
myv
nds-nl
srd
mdf
als
ile
lad
est
sna
nso
mon
hye
oss
div
est
pam
ibo
sgs
ori
bel
olo
fin
new
bpy
mon
lin
tet
csb
swe
als
amh
sna
lit
spa
pdc
fur
bul
pnb
cor
hin
rup
tgl
sme
sin
glv
aze
ell
srd
srd
bjn
dsb
tcy
yid
mhr
est
tcy
orm
lin
grn
lao
ckb
yid
aze
koi
mdf
lit
pfl
asm
bpy
ind
bod
sgs
hat
ast
hak
nap
stq
eus
yid
new
mkd
slv
cym
nan
lez
ibo
arg
fao
scn
fin
mlg
srp
gle
pdc
jpn
lad
ext
oss
gag
ksh
csb
kaz
nds
lim
aze
lez
glg
ton
rus
bel
nso
jbo
nds
pan
orm
xmf
aym
pam
che
fin
zea
oss
fry
por
jav
be-tarask
cat
zea
pcd
lmo
fra
lav
vep
ava
ext
jbo
fra
glg
ina
sqi
new
tam
lmo
mri
mkd
kom
ron
roh
ltg
bre
cor
hat
urd
ces
ukr
fao
aym
fry
sme
fra
arg
map-bms
fur
bel
cym
fry
dan
sgs
ori
gag
isl
hun
epo
ast
pcd
tur
nds-nl
gla
tet
nds-nl
tel
frp
kor
glv
lim
deu
gle
lao
lav
por
hsb
tyv
tsn
ckb
koi
olo
gag
lav
glk
hrv
min
msa
olo
nno
hak
glv
cos
slv
mlt
arg
slv
tam
mai
bho
fra
frp
lmo
cat
pap
war
kor
tam
tur
orm
sqi
war
tsn
epo
ltg
nno
jav
mar
gle
mwl
gle
cym
jav
ton
zea
hun
tet
lad
bar
frp
ibo
urd
cdo
bel
fas
new
ori
pol
mhr
xmf
slk
mon
lat
tgl
amh
ori
kaz
pam
xmf
lit
yid
pnb
pam
ceb
scn
guj
hak
arg
nap
bpy
pol
dsb
hsb
fur
yid
dan
bel
ava
eus
mal
aze
egl
ceb
fin
slv
nrm
orm
lmo
ind
ita
cos
hbs
uig
grn
udm
spa
cym
che
yid
bel
war
hbs
bxr
pnb
pol
oss
rus
aze
msa
oci
xmf
pap
udm
gla
nap
dan
nso
dsb
fas
nav
sco
bod
gla
div
udm
krc
ton
mlg
ara
ltg
swe
kin
ton
kaz
ext
san
ckb
pfl
tgl
yid
ltg
hat
glg
olo
sqi
kor
eus
mlt
snd
cdo
mkd
nno
nno
nav
pan
war
lug
jav
slv
jpn
tam
afr
koi
bul
asm
dan
che
stq
crh
be-tarask
glk
ast
hak
pam
dty
fry
lad
lug
krc
est
nan
mdf
san
mdf
mkd
ava
nob
jpn
cat
ita
nap
ast
che
orm
que
mon
pap
tgl
map-bms
tet
guj
nep
glg
hrv
urd
tel
nso
myv
olo
jav
est
tcy
fas
nob
bxr
ind
asm
deu
ckb
kor
pap
ile
ita
myv
ori
hsb
guj
hat
sna
rue
cos
war
roa-tara
ell
vls
cos
jbo
amh
cat
cat
asm
isl
pol
asm
scn
mwl
por
nap
afr
deu
hif
sgs
pan
ces
vie
pan
oss
arg
tcy
ksh
que
vol
ava
bxr
vep
bod
mri
tam
cym
gle
crh
cym
eus
lad
frp
eus
tat
ita
dty
khm
sqi
glg
hin
sgs
ces
tel
vol
msa
que
mhr
glg
snd
jav
ita
pan
crh
crh
khm
lim
ckb
lim
bjn
nds
slk
mwl
sco
tat
zea
tsn
por
bxr
mon
mhr
be-tarask
fra
dsb
rue
tet
ltg
mai
cos
hat
ind
oss
lao
lao
lao
fas
vie
mal
swe
gla
afr
epo
ibo
hak
oci
hat
aym
pol
ckb
koi
kaz
fas
lrc
tsn
kor
jpn
tel
mal
lao
fra
deu
mai
crh
epo
ori
hrv
fra
isl
rup
ceb
hsb
epo
uig
epo
als
urd
div
lez
cdo
fra
nrm
mri
ind
vie
mlt
fry
mar
nep
swe
egl
snd
bxr
tet
ceb
olo
eng
eng
gle
nld
bho
fry
nrm
srn
pag
sna
nav
ton
ces
fao
rus
ron
che
guj
aym
roa-tara
grn
tcy
sme
ile
mkd
mhr
tha
mar
lat
tat
aym
eng
tgl
csb
scn
nrm
kin
new
mwl
mri
fra
ckb
hun
als
slv
zea
lrc
srn
fry
fry
san
msa
lez
kaz
scn
mhr
gla
csb
aym
vol
kaz
pnb
srn
che
pfl
fry
epo
bod
kor
ang
nep
xho
hbs
lrc
hye
lao
che
arg
hak
zea
eus
vol
oci
kor
grn
min
lit
kin
ksh
fra
mkd
rup
tsn
nan
tyv
tel
sco
als
sme
hrv
bel
pus
kbd
mon
ell
pap
bul
hbs
ukr
ksh
sgs
fao
lug
nld
als
scn
orm
kin
bul
mlt
cos
crh
sna
guj
glg
fur
mal
krc
pfl
lit
min
snd
fin
por
hin
roh
nno
nld
dan
glv
afr
ita
tgl
uig
ceb
snd
swa
grn
ang
bxr
slv
bod
pdc
mlt
slv
hye
ell
zea
lez
pcd
kom
eus
est
rus
ksh
ori
fas
tel
krc
msa
slv
new
pcd
che
ceb
sgs
gla
hak
kan
srd
egl
cor
roh
cym
hif
pan
myv
als
snd
ori
cat
sna
khm
ace
mai
myv
ron
bul
kbd
glg
koi
ksh
vie
zea
tel
fur
bre
ckb
ltg
lat
kan
arg
nep
srn
rup
als
krc
bcl
rus
ron
als
als
kan
mon
frp
egl
cym
mhr
gla
guj
tcy
hbs
lin
spa
yid
por
ind
bjn
spa
dan
krc
mon
cym
min
roh
nds
tet
nld
deu
nan
pnb
ava
ava
snd
csb
kat
mon
mwl
aym
rus
hbs
koi
srn
rue
fao
pfl
kan
nno
ace
swa
sqi
lin
arg
rus
csb
asm
pol
pag
oci
nrm
xho
glk
arg
ton
nrm
kat
ina
pnb
sqi
mhr
mkd
min
ast
sme
nno
jav
ces
map-bms
tat
khm
ang
ksh
gle
kom
oss
crh
lug
bho
cbk
gag
nan
bpy
pdc
war
sna
uig
nds-nl
lrc
sin
khm
ind
deu
ori
pag
pam
nds-nl
rus
nso
eus
glg
gle
new
mya
fas
aze
swa
nob
ksh
stq
nld
tsn
eng
slk
ell
tam
lmo
fas
roh
grn
pnb
sna
tat
epo
grn
swa
ell
mri
vep
mkd
tat
bar
ast
tcy
srd
aze
kbd
bxr
crh
amh
pus
map-bms
bho
roa-tara
pdc
hye
asm
cor
tel
srd
pus
jpn
san
bre
bjn
aym
tam
tam
new
lin
ina
cdo
jbo
asm
frp
rue
sme
tet
spa
amh
myv
mal
lez
sna
scn
urd
kan
mkd
hif
ita
xmf
hak
min
hif
tcy
amh
rus
ava
mal
mal
pnb
wln
sgs
fin
tat
san
fra
pus
pan
tgl
oss
myv
bod
nso
pdc
epo
swe
ita
ast
pag
nrm
tcy
sme
mal
bcl
koi
urd
nds-nl
mal
nds
slk
eng
hsb
kin
lad
pfl
cbk
khm
khm
msa
hun
nav
bre
glv
be-tarask
khm
ast
lrc
wln
bpy
tel
cdo
min
lit
cos
oss
que
cor
tha
scn
glk
ron
pus
crh
csb
hbs
sgs
div
pol
cdo
asm
eng
pfl
ibo
mar
sin
fas
nrm
ori
eng
bel
pus
sme
ang
spa
uig
swa
hbs
kan
fas
dsb
nan
aym
hat
rue
srp
kin
bpy
grn
swe
rue
pam
gle
wln
spa
wln
fry
roa-tara
nds-nl
fas
cor
ckb
hin
ara
cos
ibo
fur
ckb
lug
ibo
kin
ava
lez
hye
ceb
min
pan
bho
hin
mar
nno
mar
ces
glg
msa
nep
gle
lez
pnb
pcd
tet
ara
bul
hye
tyv
kan
lug
isl
cym
kor
bre
kbd
pdc
ext
ukr
mkd
pam
new
aze
msa
spa
olo
nso
sin
fur
bpy
ast
vie
be-tarask
xmf
lim
ksh
jpn
mkd
myv
hat
hat
tgl
ltg
cat
nan
san
nds
gla
kbd
als
fas
nrm
dty
orm
yid
tyv
cbk
lrc
msa
mal
ksh
yid
mlt
hat
ckb
mal
mya
mhr
nld
koi
ceb
lit
hbs
oci
frp
jbo
est
lit
be-tarask
ace
pnb
pus
ast
ukr
afr
lug
slk
roh
nep
ext
hsb
nav
vol
ksh
ori
roa-tara
vol
myv
eus
bxr
asm
rue
tam
bpy
nob
hin
tel
xho
nep
nep
kom
nso
ori
nap
dsb
fin
oci
kbd
mhr
spa
che
pol
bjn
bjn
kom
guj
gla
rue
lav
bxr
ckb
sgs
oss
lug
cdo
bel
gle
bel
lit
lrc
ina
ori
gag
pcd
frp
mlg
sco
vep
lav
nep
tha
por
aze
stq
ceb
egl
epo
ext
ukr
tat
mar
por
olo
jav
bxr
bul
cat
ltg
kbd
dan
bod
ast
ton
snd
crh
roa-tara
cat
lad
oci
pfl
cdo
oss
vie
new
rue
mwl
olo
mkd
aze
scn
dsb
pcd
egl
bar
pnb
est
cdo
tsn
ron
ind
vol
jpn
cbk
pfl
pus
afr
pcd
cym
kor
urd
ang
pan
kan
ton
slk
bre
pol
nds-nl
kan
hun
khm
glk
kbd
cor
slk
ace
ibo
tyv
eng
mkd
isl
que
bjn
ksh
tgl
pfl
new
pap
pam
ksh
mkd
kin
hif
kan
rue
rus
eng
nav
olo
nrm
ita
cos
nno
wln
spa
pap
ceb
pol
war
kin
csb
lin
map-bms
amh
zea
ace
deu
swa
bpy
pan
kom
ukr
que
pam
ori
pan
dty
lat
hat
tam
grn
frp
ron
ind
hrv
gla
bpy
rue
yid
zea
ava
nso
xmf
slv
bod
lrc
cbk
tet
bpy
lrc
bul
oci
div
nep
fur
bxr
ckb
pcd
lad
lao
nds-nl
deu
ext
eng
nld
que
mlt
lez
roa-tara
zea
ukr
hif
eng
pag
csb
epo
glk
hat
bjn
pnb
pol
spa
ksh
vls
ext
mlg
nds
ace
nds
hak
jbo
dsb
bxr
pol
mal
mai
sme
jbo
gla
kor
nrm
mon
rus
mhr
urd
msa
zea
mlt
aze
orm
amh
pag
tgl
gag
tet
deu
roa-tara
pus
lat
be-tarask
lao
cdo
mal
swa
bul
san
scn
rue
glv
lez
tgl
ksh
kor
jav
tet
lav
grn
ara
lug
ext
bcl
ton
nob
ava
fry
mlg
xmf
oci
dty
bxr
glk
snd
hrv
arg
als
cat
afr
lit
stq
ava
asm
xmf
gla
mdf
frp
crh
mri
hye
sin
sna
csb
tgl
eus
nds-nl
lav
pus
sgs
arg
mar
sco
vep
kor
lug
hak
dan
ori
sgs
vol
ara
nep
lin
lat
fin
ceb
gla
msa
mlt
nno
fao
hsb
pcd
fao
urd
war
mya
ina
slk
min
orm
pam
pus
hat
swa
mhr
ava
ara
arg
nrm
ava
xmf
roa-tara
eng
cor
sqi
bre
cor
jpn
krc
pnb
bre
min
yid
isl
uig
map-bms
hye
mlt
pus
que
hun
mkd
ile
fur
xho
fra
msa
ara
bjn
bho
asm
ltg
ces
ast
pag
ast
pnb
xho
rus
ara
isl
vol
kin
stq
fas
lug
egl
slk
por
swa
kbd
crh
lin
nds-nl
stq
nep
glk
snd
ast
mlg
epo
sme
snd
olo
ita
ksh
hye
deu
egl
ron
oss
lrc
tet
tet
dty
ces
kbd
ukr
afr
mkd
vls
mlg
hat
ltg
sgs
tur
be-tarask
nld
nav
srp
oci
csb
kin
slk
ell
cdo
tha
lat
aze
ile
ina
bcl
nld
hbs
eus
cbk
srn
orm
egl
orm
ksh
tsn
bcl
nav
bre
ind
pag
scn
mal
ara
kor
kin
kbd
zea
pag
isl
oci
xho
sme
tam
que
pan
lad
tur
myv
pnb
nob
yid
hat
ukr
snd
tgl
tyv
fas
hif
spa
ton
nan
ori
spa
udm
swe
pnb
bho
sme
hsb
mon
olo
ibo
zea
vls
jav
sqi
tcy
pol
gag
ang
jbo
mri
vls
sqi
bel
dsb
hye
swa
isl
ext
hsb
que
orm
lad
bxr
jbo
koi
nan
bxr
hsb
pus
jav
cdo
map-bms
gle
vep
isl
hat
mri
hsb
pan
rup
ori
bul
rue
bjn
bod
ces
ace
xho
lit
div
eus
min
ces
lao
vep
als
nds-nl
mlt
crh
slv
ltg
vie
aze
kor
ron
glk
slv
ita
pan
hrv
rus
vie
cat
wln
mar
arg
fry
bar
lmo
guj
pag
ell
san
bho
map-bms
tat
tam
eus
ell
csb
vie
lin
orm
est
rus
ava
hrv
mwl
myv
pdc
vol
wln
lim
ksh
fry
jav
eus
ace
ita
sme
vls
ckb
sqi
jpn
san
tat
nds
lrc
krc
fry
grn
pan
wln
udm
nld
ceb
sme
crh
swa
kom
pdc
sqi
hsb
lin
epo
ces
tet
bho
lin
grn
ace
bar
tyv
gle
myv
gag
bod
zea
pdc
cor
war
kaz
bxr
pcd
ton
kom
kat
lmo
tgl
map-bms
kor
pnb
fin
hsb
bjn
min
oss
nrm
jbo
pus
kor
mya
pag
hif
kat
vie
als
kan
bar
pnb
afr
zea
xmf
jpn
ckb
hbs
ita
hin
ces
tha
hrv
oss
egl
zea
srd
cat
ksh
ton
vol
dty
ina
slv
ksh
glg
bpy
tyv
yid
tam
bpy
dsb
que
srd
hat
hif
gla
pap
frp
eus
ace
glv
pan
uig
pam
ukr
ang
roa-tara
ukr
zea
udm
pam
map-bms
urd
lao
cdo
nno
tyv
lin
tgl
hin
pap
new
msa
ile
urd
cbk
ara
deu
oss
sme
tyv
por
war
ina
pol
tgl
mdf
tcy
mhr
ita
orm
kbd
pag
tgl
nld
ara
kin
spa
roa-tara
csb
dan
csb
olo
bar
lim
swa
krc
ceb
sqi
tat
pfl
bho
srp
vie
uig
snd
ltg
ava
vie
mkd
por
dan
guj
frp
ton
uig
vol
deu
fin
dan
fra
kin
hbs
sme
jpn
udm
roa-tara
ang
zea
bod
tsn
tet
fas
kaz
pam
myv
xho
afr
bjn
ksh
kor
cdo
nav
mlg
che
tha
nds-nl
vls
srn
nld
crh
jav
tgl
swe
mlt
pan
ces
hat
bre
hat
ina
gle
stq
myv
pan
swe
fur
egl
srn
kat
bod
mlg
grn
kom
bjn
hrv
gla
myv
kin
slk
jav
wln
srn
spa
olo
yid
mlt
udm
mal
sqi
lrc
cbk
msa
ast
jbo
oss
bel
bjn
egl
bpy
pdc
zea
ckb
kan
jbo
que
vls
srd
spa
lav
bul
deu
guj
rup
ukr
khm
roh
kom
pcd
khm
cat
hak
nap
san
ext
swe
min
roh
gla
egl
sna
bar
por
dty
tam
slv
ind
glg
asm
sme
nap
nob
kin
vie
tel
hun
afr
cym
nep
mkd
srd
che
ina
aze
vie
crh
rus
egl
khm
glg
ext
orm
map-bms
dsb
lez
bre
orm
che
pdc
cdo
bul
uig
rup
oci
est
wln
ori
kat
mar
afr
srn
orm
fas
ibo
lez
urd
gla
ltg
tyv
tsn
che
egl
cat
fin
rus
ton
ckb
tyv
mar
ast
dty
hun
oss
aze
tsn
nso
ina
gle
nso
ile
pdc
mlt
sin
urd
ksh
nap
cor
lad
div
div
ltg
ile
mlt
tha
ksh
ava
grn
glv
hin
bel
snd
hye
bxr
jav
sna
jbo
hun
mlg
spa
dsb
be-tarask
scn
ita
tgl
guj
rue
bxr
jav
ton
glk
hak
koi
kan
bcl
sme
udm
urd
mar
mri
tcy
stq
lin
ukr
vol
hun
lug
msa
stq
ell
dan
bre
lim
mlt
vep
koi
mhr
lav
ces
rue
csb
tat
tel
nds-nl
srn
lim
tet
pdc
arg
spa
div
mhr
ara
lad
pfl
tcy
gle
mlg
afr
pnb
sin
cor
bre
gag
map-bms
rue
lez
srd
oci
afr
lim
fao
pan
ckb
fao
mdf
lez
bho
pag
nob
pnb
khm
fin
cdo
afr
hrv
mar
nan
spa
bho
por
myv
vls
eng
hak
sgs
tcy
koi
hun
tam
bho
spa
rus
sgs
kin
jbo
guj
nld
sna
kom
pcd
lim
tyv
kbd
bpy
msa
tat
tam
stq
stq
bre
nap
ind
por
che
msa
arg
nds
bcl
eng
fra
est
por
afr
mkd
hat
lrc
tat
aze
ibo
nob
mlt
fao
div
amh
dty
mai
wln
srp
srp
oss
lrc
udm
hbs
eng
pcd
lad
bpy
mai
pap
ile
khm
fao
tyv
udm
swa
be-tarask
hin
glv
koi
snd
jpn
fin
ces
bjn
arg
nan
ckb
ita
aze
xmf
pnb
kom
lmo
mwl
tam
fur
nap
udm
gla
lmo
sqi
cym
pcd
lad
ltg
grn
tur
uig
epo
mdf
tet
grn
xho
cym
vie
nav
ile
ang
tgl
kom
tam
cbk
que
lmo
mlt
pap
ita
tgl
lit
hrv
oss
mhr
cbk
nno
ckb
nav
fas
tcy
bcl
jpn
pan
srp
pol
nap
hbs
pdc
xmf
yid
orm
rue
mwl
wln
lim
roa-tara
hak
hye
pfl
snd
ava
epo
cos
snd
kbd
afr
ita
ces
uig
que
ind
wln
afr
nob
kor
bod
mri
ceb
jav
mlg
pdc
ind
be-tarask
ast
egl
spa
hrv
bar
cat
hat
orm
bpy
epo
sco
dan
lit
pam
nso
ron
asm
amh
ina
oci
nds
mar
fry
kat
ltg
bul
xmf
nan
nep
srd
srp
mlt
roa-tara
nan
jbo
myv
tsn
nno
ita
bxr
yid
sin
kor
cat
srn
ori
sco
roa-tara
scn
kin
udm
epo
lrc
frp
mal
ava
sco
mon
fur
ukr
sqi
zea
crh
bcl
mai
wln
aze
bod
ava
lug
sqi
ind
kan
krc
pfl
pap
tet
olo
koi
slv
dsb
nld
afr
ind
sgs
mal
tam
ace
rup
jbo
tur
bod
hak
bxr
cos
eng
olo
gag
lim
snd
vol
zea
cat
srp
pfl
srp
bxr
pol
fas
deu
kom
frp
lug
be-tarask
ara
tam
rue
kom
glg
vep
mon
sna
pag
uig
che
kbd
snd
udm
be-tarask
est
spa
vep
kor
bjn
lin
arg
roh
bod
ext
epo
glk
aze
nso
ukr
srp
srd
ace
csb
jbo
mwl
swa
bpy
isl
hye
mlg
pam
kat
myv
snd
stq
mon
tel
jbo
glk
tsn
isl
rue
ita
eng
hsb
nds
eus
slk
rup
msa
srn
slk
tam
scn
aze
cdo
gla
map-bms
bar
pnb
pfl
tel
oss
san
oss
mai
mar
nld
nds
che
grn
ile
spa
csb
lmo
nso
srp
ina
egl
ast
por
nrm
roh
kin
vie
kaz
jpn
eus
lat
ita
por
lao
jpn
cor
xmf
urd
urd
fao
srn
nno
lat
tgl
afr
ina
pfl
lmo
mlt
myv
sme
tur
lrc
rue
ita
lav
sqi
ang
hif
mai
hun
amh
gag
tsn
slk
nan
sco
tha
rus
pfl
krc
snd
tha
lmo
fra
war
orm
roa-tara
new
bar
gle
mdf
oss
vep
lug
eus
pag
vie
gla
lao
mri
hsb
tgl
ina
bcl
bul
bho
tam
tcy
frp
cat
glv
ina
tat
cat
nds
kin
slv
afr
gla
lad
egl
hrv
jpn
rue
new
nld
eng
lao
est
ina
new
nld
csb
sin
ori
lat
epo
als
ton
kan
scn
roh
tgl
lmo
spa
tcy
grn
wln
lad
oss
san
ast
crh
pfl
lao
slv
est
krc
nds-nl
vie
bpy
new
hin
bar
myv
nep
nob
lim
ell
div
pfl
por
xho
div
bcl
ltg
hye
fao
ces
roa-tara
mar
jav
pfl
bpy
lez
srp
deu
ava
hif
lad
ara
guj
zea
hif
amh
guj
new
war
ita
nob
cat
wln
sco
scn
nds
xmf
mon
roa-tara
ara
ang
nds-nl
als
als
xho
fur
est
ckb
cdo
bpy
arg
ace
glk
guj
als
uig
pnb
xho
fur
mar
kat
kan
zea
be-tarask
tha
hak
ina
frp
pap
ell
fur
nds-nl
egl
ron
spa
urd
eus
swa
jpn
bjn
grn
udm
myv
kbd
pdc
fin
cor
eng
orm
ces
pcd
ast
wln
srd
spa
lad
srn
nrm
tcy
hin
cym
bcl
swa
lrc
nds
ltg
swe
ori
mal
rue
tat
ori
aze
vep
tel
pol
ind
rue
ces
fas
crh
als
bre
hsb
khm
khm
afr
olo
roh
ukr
ell
fra
kat
mai
tgl
hun
cor
glk
kor
pdc
crh
slv
bpy
lat
ori
hat
bul
fao
pfl
nrm
pus
lin
sco
dan
tyv
pcd
lin
aym
swe
mlt
lrc
gla
zea
glk
div
spa
lin
tel
pap
oci
hbs
ltg
msa
lao
eng
est
pan
che
mwl
rue
amh
eus
mdf
cos
xmf
tgl
hsb
mar
aze
ton
ita
bul
xho
koi
bar
sco
kan
kat
oss
slk
msa
tha
oss
ace
kin
kan
hbs
olo
war
scn
srn
dsb
bul
vie
khm
jav
eng
bxr
bho
frp
lez
slv
ceb
fao
ext
grn
ext
cos
ina
sqi
ile
ina
rue
hak
ces
hin
nap
kor
ltg
mri
crh
hif
tgl
bar
nno
khm
mdf
cbk
lmo
zea
bar
mwl
por
nob
nds-nl
als
nds-nl
stq
pol
pdc
cos
dsb
eus
por
dsb
amh
spa
sqi
gle
olo
san
hye
srp
lmo
lad
pol
kor
roh
ron
ext
nds-nl
new
asm
ron
glv
sgs
pnb
myv
mlg
wln
slk
hif
mwl
sgs
koi
ara
oss
deu
wln
nds
sme
srd
nan
slk
nrm
jpn
nds-nl
krc
lez
nav
lad
nob
ltg
koi
lmo
hif
bjn
tur
olo
fur
ace
xho
cat
cym
nld
sin
mai
deu
min
kaz
lit
urd
eus
roa-tara
ceb
glv
kor
cdo
swe
mri
ceb
tcy
hif
ara
sna
glk
ron
vls
lrc
bjn
min
xho
mwl
cbk
nds
ara
msa
udm
slv
kom
kin
lug
div
cor
aym
slv
be-tarask
fry
bxr
mri
nso
mlg
pan
vls
rue
vls
san
mkd
che
kom
lit
bre
rus
rup
bar
mlt
ton
ces
min
bho
bjn
hun
jav
por
xho
que
mal
eng
che
vep
bpy
div
afr
cat
cat
jpn
bpy
bxr
bar
mdf
pfl
pap
tur
ibo
tam
mya
fin
che
vol
koi
hif
dsb
udm
ces
fao
sin
swe
tyv
war
hye
cor
eng
hye
bho
vol
khm
kan
cbk
nap
kaz
tcy
lav
bel
roh
lao
rup
mya
deu
glv
kbd
nan
ron
xmf
mai
nno
stq
lim
asm
map-bms
cat
orm
isl
nno
dan
kbd
ind
csb
hif
bod
orm
eng
koi
nan
rup
vep
sco
bar
bul
xmf
cos
tur
mal
tcy
vie
hun
sin
frp
hsb
kbd
nrm
sin
hrv
zea
tel
wln
pnb
dan
arg
guj
hun
nld
isl
bod
kin
mri
urd
sme
bul
mdf
spa
srp
bar
kaz
que
cdo
lad
ksh
rup
yid
deu
ace
sqi
deu
lao
pan
csb
ori
bar
san
ton
ibo
div
lat
pan
lim
swe
sqi
por
pan
fra
asm
tsn
ell
jbo
lim
be-tarask
olo
bjn
epo
fur
frp
roa-tara
map-bms
ina
bul
ron
ext
nap
pnb
als
sme
khm
gag
hin
sna
dty
spa
ukr
ton
egl
lmo
ara
srd
lad
nap
lad
hif
tet
cdo
nep
sme
olo
ukr
frp
spa
ile
aze
isl
tsn
ceb
swe
ceb
fur
pus
ckb
cdo
eng
olo
bar
jbo
cos
nan
che
gla
nds-nl
als
hsb
nan
zea
roa-tara
gla
bcl
ext
dan
oci
che
krc
vls
cos
aym
oss
pnb
krc
koi
eus
epo
fao
fur
bpy
que
hye
kat
rus
krc
ltg
bod
aym
tur
pan
por
srd
kat
gla
srp
nds-nl
ava
stq
bod
ori
lin
als
est
fao
uig
tcy
srd
pam
ind
arg
khm
bod
dty
nrm
csb
lrc
frp
glg
ron
hrv
srd
hin
asm
hsb
glv
rue
que
ori
khm
ceb
jbo
pdc
ron
ton
wln
bul
hif
mya
ori
bxr
ina
ell
nav
pam
mar
xmf
ckb
kor
jbo
isl
xho
kan
bul
ang
swe
sin
wln
ton
min
sco
ina
hin
lin
nno
bxr
tel
por
ces
mon
swa
lez
bxr
hin
map-bms
lit
div
msa
lmo
ara
olo
vol
tyv
bjn
ast
fas
fur
tsn
eng
ina
be-tarask
hif
khm
tyv
bho
mon
mal
glg
jav
bul
pcd
slk
asm
hat
lat
guj
mlg
hsb
hin
koi
eng
spa
new
vls
mwl
bho
tyv
mdf
fur
ksh
hbs
fas
pcd
nan
ksh
frp
cym
srd
jav
hat
div
nds-nl
nav
ext
tsn
ace
tam
amh
ibo
cor
fas
hbs
sin
pol
div
frp
san
new
rue
cor
tet
vie
tel
deu
nrm
bre
lit
lav
que
swa
kan
deu
wln
fra
crh
srp
glg
ara
ind
sme
glk
asm
kor
scn
min
eus
lav
srd
scn
dan
urd
krc
hrv
ita
tam
pnb
tha
hrv
pag
san
orm
pap
eus
mwl
olo
lat
nds
ukr
oci
mlg
als
ori
sme
lez
nds-nl
ell
rup
tam
arg
ast
zea
hye
pfl
tet
yid
mri
srn
pus
dsb
rue
roh
nds
ava
pap
ceb
fao
fas
glk
lat
fin
epo
por
spa
que
pcd
cbk
pap
ace
dan
pfl
cdo
kor
kor
mya
nap
tgl
cor
roh
que
aym
hif
tel
lad
ext
srd
rue
xmf
cym
tha
rup
als
crh
hat
tsn
als
cbk
pan
wln
snd
srp
vls
cos
que
bho
bar
tat
epo
war
ara
fry
bod
lim
pag
jav
ton
afr
ace
pus
dan
hrv
sna
deu
ast
sna
sna
nso
sco
orm
ang
epo
tcy
glk
lim
ton
ast
lao
rue
msa
khm
swa
hak
ton
oci
ces
ita
swa
pam
nds
lav
nep
snd
sin
ind
nob
amh
pus
arg
rue
est
xmf
bjn
jpn
lim
srn
aym
pol
khm
pol
tyv
jav
mya
koi
yid
bxr
gla
pnb
udm
bho
tcy
jpn
kor
pus
lat
sna
ara
kom
sgs
glv
bjn
sna
gle
guj
pol
cym
kaz
kan
mkd
wln
vls
mya
glv
nno
mkd
sco
min
pus
bjn
crh
kor
mkd
ron
nrm
fra
mdf
pus
ext
nds
hin
nld
hye
hif
roh
grn
srp
roh
lat
lrc
asm
roa-tara
nep
xmf
wln
fas
xmf
ace
ina
div
eng
dsb
xmf
kan
hrv
cym
fao
hrv
mkd
nav
bho
nso
lin
gag
eng
sco
urd
nds
lat
pus
oss
kat
kbd
ces
mhr
als
fry
tel
khm
oci
pfl
eus
sna
nld
rue
kbd
bar
pcd
nld
pap
ibo
fao
glk
ace
mlt
guj
pol
stq
urd
lao
tet
ang
jbo
ind
san
uig
tsn
glv
sin
fur
ukr
uig
lim
tyv
snd
stq
fra
sgs
roa-tara
ukr
cbk
ckb
ile
nrm
glv
fur
srp
lim
mri
pfl
slk
orm
xmf
mlg
slv
bul
pam
lmo
be-tarask
lim
tet
hak
vls
lin
bxr
ast
vie
gla
mai
aym
tel
fra
yid
ext
cat
bul
csb
ara
kbd
nob
ukr
myv
epo
nds-nl
mal
stq
lmo
pnb
pan
fur
cbk
zea
sme
jav
mar
nep
orm
ava
ibo
srd
ara
glk
mkd
mal
glv
ang
uig
asm
hat
est
est
mhr
nob
tsn
lez
krc
slv
egl
oci
pol
swe
lim
ast
glk
koi
map-bms
est
cdo
cdo
olo
frp
xmf
pfl
jbo
bjn
hrv
arg
urd
zea
fao
ibo
bar
tur
bre
glv
kat
lao
myv
ori
hif
nrm
bel
glg
fas
ang
amh
afr
isl
eus
kor
sin
cdo
rus
pam
gle
gle
aym
pam
por
scn
lao
grn
ace
kat
gla
ibo
fas
ceb
frp
zea
dsb
kbd
que
mhr
amh
tur
aym
spa
als
roa-tara
nav
glg
vol
pap
grn
kaz
ksh
mdf
lav
frp
nav
lin
kin
tcy
glg
sqi
tha
srn
hsb
tgl
crh
aym
ang
lmo
fur
bjn
ibo
scn
nno
dty
mwl
mar
frp
sgs
bre
pfl
hat
lug
rup
hif
be-tarask
ukr
sin
glg
srn
aym
pnb
bul
olo
lug
srp
mri
mkd
lmo
kaz
tgl
pdc
new
bpy
guj
ace
que
tel
mwl
tha
fao
ang
ibo
hat
bho
mar
snd
gla
vls
gla
zea
eus
ang
tet
fra
ksh
jbo
ast
gag
scn
mlg
aym
bar
uig
vls
glk
che
nso
pnb
be-tarask
hun
sin
ell
srd
mlg
san
urd
isl
udm
tgl
pdc
hun
uig
pdc
est
khm
mhr
che
mri
fra
war
dan
pam
tha
ces
est
ton
fur
yid
lao
xho
vie
vep
mwl
mkd
mwl
nso
pap
bcl
slv
jav
khm
ell
arg
ukr
slk
nso
epo
mar
ext
vls
slk
aze
ltg
bod
mri
bre
pdc
crh
xmf
cdo
roa-tara
pap
slv
jbo
spa
lmo
ava
asm
vol
swa
san
pnb
sna
pol
ell
mkd
jpn
est
pcd
isl
slv
snd
mai
ara
hat
nld
ron
bel
cor
bul
lit
kbd
mon
guj
rue
ton
urd
bul
fao
roh
ace
vol
bar
mkd
cdo
slk
lez
gla
sin
nso
sco
oss
nso
swa
arg
nso
vls
kat
ita
roa-tara
sco
hin
jav
bod
dan
glg
nav
ind
xmf
ang
bpy
cos
vls
new
lez
mwl
tcy
glv
sna
bpy
srd
mkd
ind
roh
nrm
kom
mri
spa
min
hif
oss
wln
eng
mhr
lmo
dan
cor
cdo
lrc
asm
srd
arg
hat
glk
kor
kor
glg
kin
vep
bar
bar
srd
dsb
tam
bcl
olo
cor
hif
roa-tara
pan
kor
srd
tyv
min
jbo
cat
cym
srd
sgs
ckb
nob
gag
pap
asm
udm
new
war
asm
glg
zea
csb
deu
sgs
kin
tsn
pnb
hun
guj
nep
xmf
lmo
ang
ltg
nld
tel
urd
eus
hif
msa
dsb
hat
nap
eng
lav
fao
hak
tet
scn
cos
slk
ton
bpy
ina
tgl
aze
wln
cdo
wln
bpy
hbs
div
ara
gla
snd
ceb
sin
fas
div
nap
hat
san
egl
msa
nds-nl
jav
fas
fin
olo
mlg
nds
urd
vol
est
ace
cym
als
rus
frp
vep
sqi
bre
nan
stq
eus
arg
fra
wln
dan
tam
snd
bul
spa
crh
aym
mkd
bcl
be-tarask
mlg
ori
srn
pcd
che
mlt
arg
mhr
nan
mlt
slk
nds-nl
dty
kbd
ava
pdc
mai
nld
tel
pcd
srn
gle
ita
sme
aze
fas
hrv
pol
slk
msa
hif
sna
vep
nav
mal
spa
ace
grn
vep
bod
new
hsb
srp
rup
oci
ile
dan
tha
vls
egl
xmf
hin
mai
mri
ltg
lin
lim
tur
ile
sme
hat
csb
jav
san
san
lim
nap
ibo
mwl
sin
hak
urd
nds-nl
gle
bod
olo
yid
aym
cdo
gle
nap
snd
ace
pag
guj
snd
krc
aze
nep
war
hrv
wln
ckb
nob
que
fur
jpn
urd
orm
jav
oci
fas
pcd
war
bcl
nav
glv
pap
srn
gla
pfl
lin
khm
lrc
oss
guj
cym
pdc
ckb
ava
epo
udm
nan
bjn
olo
bod
sin
san
frp
oci
lmo
sgs
bho
uig
swe
mlg
nrm
pcd
pol
mon
orm
vep
nan
kaz
krc
por
fry
cor
srn
sin
isl
kor
uig
cym
pus
cym
fra
pam
lad
srn
por
tsn
nan
kat
mya
lit
ksh
sme
koi
nno
mkd
glv
lao
nds
ast
cor
hbs
gla
rup
kat
nav
sme
dan
nav
cym
bho
nrm
div
tha
ind
mal
olo
slv
ast
hun
tgl
por
bpy
stq
ang
swe
fao
be-tarask
cbk
lmo
kor
bcl
mai
ron
aze
bho
nep
pan
tha
tur
sna
dan
bjn
swa
csb
hye
san
aze
rup
mar
bxr
cos
cbk
sna
cos
glv
tel
san
nld
lmo
zea
ina
tsn
fry
tgl
oci
lim
tam
xho
lit
rus
pan
nrm
bod
ind
ace
jav
bre
mhr
bho
srp
spa
egl
hat
scn
ksh
tsn
lad
bul
lim
mkd
bar
vie
roa-tara
cat
slv
oci
pdc
eng
roh
bho
div
xmf
amh
frp
nav
vls
fin
bre
lit
ava
mlg
wln
sin
pan
zea
lez
vls
pcd
tcy
grn
jbo
hbs
lit
mhr
sco
pam
mar
kan
mhr
ile
hbs
mkd
map-bms
msa
egl
ceb
que
frp
asm
mlt
min
hbs
kat
map-bms
sin
mar
fur
hye
jbo
xmf
nds
tel
mlt
mar
srd
bod
nep
slk
pam
lao
tcy
lit
jav
oss
tgl
che
ibo
mya
mai
khm
crh
nds
jbo
san
pol
nno
ckb
ksh
crh
tat
bre
khm
vls
srn
ext
frp
mya
ace
mal
bel
pam
mal
mal
pcd
mlg
myv
slk
orm
ara
mri
pfl
gla
ckb
lez
mai
sgs
bho
stq
ces
dan
bre
jpn
ang
fra
lao
udm
yid
tha
tsn
hun
oci
grn
urd
jav
jbo
amh
nav
ace
ron
egl
dty
ltg
cos
lao
swa
bel
arg
nav
ara
wln
deu
mdf
tur
roa-tara
sco
kan
isl
pus
lez
que
lat
tur
kor
rus
kaz
ina
che
ckb
ext
be-tarask
jpn
kin
ron
glg
yid
tyv
nob
glk
bcl
bel
kbd
rup
scn
bod
hak
mar
msa
cor
slv
bho
tat
che
fra
ile
lao
que
ell
ron
ace
deu
swe
pnb
hrv
ckb
nds-nl
scn
gag
pol
cbk
ori
mlt
rus
khm
srn
bho
por
bjn
slv
ceb
min
kin
bjn
arg
mdf
hun
lav
ast
bjn
ext
koi
ckb
gla
tsn
crh
mkd
amh
roh
mdf
cbk
arg
tet
khm
ron
mya
hif
aze
glv
bel
kom
pcd
jbo
isl
ron
pus
hun
mri
afr
pdc
ces
mdf
ile
mar
hif
hat
rup
vls
map-bms
tha
xho
srd
pag
ron
epo
pag
khm
wln
ita
oss
dty
est
bcl
tcy
ast
glg
stq
frp
bjn
scn
mlg
tsn
lim
lez
mya
nrm
srd
ukr
pfl
rus
asm
ceb
lrc
tur
olo
vie
ara
orm
pag
san
tyv
pan
cbk
snd
gag
ori
hif
scn
lin
ron
koi
sme
mri
kom
arg
ang
que
lrc
pan
mdf
fra
ind
mya
cos
pus
xho
ang
fry
bre
map-bms
new
nep
roa-tara
scn
crh
vep
nob
fas
gle
kom
sgs
ksh
orm
tyv
kaz
rup
roa-tara
ron
kom
bjn
gag
kor
ile
tha
glg
nds-nl
hak
rus
grn
xho
ell
pag
tel
mya
che
sme
als
uig
glg
sqi
hak
bho
lit
zea
bod
xho
min
cat
cat
lat
glv
srn
fao
vep
gag
deu
vep
fra
new
rus
pnb
cym
asm
fur
mkd
ell
fin
vol
mdf
mlt
hun
bho
roa-tara
fas
san
ara
pam
eus
pus
ext
swe
ace
ces
fra
bxr
bod
slk
lin
tha
cdo
nso
fry
snd
pag
kor
bre
oss
kan
cor
fra
new
cdo
rup
cym
war
lat
ile
nds-nl
lao
guj
swa
epo
mhr
mwl
krc
ksh
min
nan
epo
vol
hat
pam
nld
mhr
cdo
cbk
amh
ext
tgl
roh
ukr
mkd
roh
frp
myv
ukr
cbk
pdc
ell
nrm
cym
que
cat
ext
est
est
orm
pnb
egl
ina
orm
csb
srd
fry
por
div
sco
gla
eus
aze
nds-nl
sna
sme
amh
hsb
epo
bjn
swe
mhr
nob
fas
tcy
urd
kor
ksh
krc
stq
lad
cbk
dsb
mhr
dan
eng
pus
cdo
isl
ksh
rue
mal
vie
sco
jav
scn
tel
srd
ext
swa
bjn
spa
ksh
dty
tur
tyv
myv
sgs
lim
amh
yid
arg
kor
tsn
kaz
eng
kat
cbk
kat
slk
jpn
nld
ckb
nob
slk
kat
mlg
ckb
srp
tel
ces
glg
kan
rue
dty
roh
spa
bcl
ara
nan
swa
pus
cbk
koi
pam
oss
stq
lug
oci
ckb
koi
tel
kin
san
tgl
lim
sna
cos
ava
ita
deu
epo
ces
ace
bxr
dan
tsn
tel
jav
vep
sme
spa
fas
epo
slv
bul
cat
pcd
che
mlt
gla
map-bms
ind
mya
pfl
ori
mwl
sme
fry
slv
pol
nep
hye
fao
ori
ang
ace
nob
aym
lez
nav
mya
oci
nob
deu
bpy
ita
sme
gag
tam
nav
san
ind
che
glk
bcl
ori
ita
ita
fin
lin
crh
fur
tcy
khm
bjn
bre
hye
roa-tara
jpn
sqi
fry
ukr
por
cym
jav
glv
jav
msa
cor
myv
oci
jpn
tet
bul
xmf
tha
arg
egl
pfl
frp
ukr
kaz
gag
est
cor
kaz
lit
tat
bxr
jpn
glv
ces
bcl
ckb
nso
lat
pam
bjn
lat
kat
ava
cbk
kaz
war
cdo
mri
msa
srn
stq
nds-nl
uig
lav
kor
kom
nso
hat
fas
glv
sco
kat
dty
sin
swa
pfl
lit
crh
oci
sqi
nap
pag
slk
asm
hbs
dty
pol
swa
fin
tur
nso
por
ind
nan
ext
bul
lug
mai
hin
sgs
grn
aze
bjn
vls
mya
mhr
mdf
koi
nrm
afr
cbk
vol
pap
slv
ori
gla
tcy
fin
ita
sgs
msa
ita
ina
cbk
hrv
jav
cdo
bod
glk
slv
lad
san
tam
lad
guj
ton
fas
cat
cor
jbo
cat
mkd
nep
ind
orm
nav
asm
pus
epo
csb
nap
zea
srp
pus
pdc
rup
fry
spa
nav
slv
cdo
lin
nld
vls
gle
sqi
rup
min
ara
mkd
frp
kbd
lat
sqi
crh
nap
ltg
ind
pam
nrm
slv
tel
cos
glg
ell
kom
kan
nds
bho
aze
sgs
ceb
yid
pol
mdf
hun
tsn
lug
glk
nob
sgs
che
lim
gag
guj
pdc
yid
mwl
ton
tur
mal
sco
hye
ckb
yid
tat
glk
ckb
ace
vol
koi
uig
srd
sna
snd
kor
bjn
bho
kat
lrc
bre
hbs
tsn
ext
por
fin
lmo
tgl
ita
ace
min
map-bms
glg
lao
mon
lit
hbs
srn
est
stq
nob
pfl
sin
san
vep
cos
ara
msa
ile
aze
mkd
lmo
mal
mri
cdo
koi
pag
guj
nob
bjn
nso
ext
nld
urd
nno
ori
hrv
asm
gag
vol
ara
kom
tam
ceb
mkd
lez
tcy
nds
fur
zea
srp
jav
que
sqi
orm
tet
bod
bjn
slk
nob
che
pam
egl
be-tarask
be-tarask
que
mwl
ksh
bar
slk
ksh
hat
jpn
fra
gle
hif
krc
ext
isl
ara
rus
bul
pap
glg
dsb
ind
cym
rus
sgs
slv
spa
bel
hat
lim
hye
ltg
jpn
ton
glv
mkd
bod
cym
ang
stq
dsb
rue
mhr
mon
urd
oci
vls
ksh
lit
fin
bcl
lit
fin
hsb
zea
ast
vls
arg
egl
sgs
glg
bar
ceb
bul
new
cdo
ast
msa
ang
hun
ltg
rus
hbs
guj
rup
ton
ibo
hye
mwl
pnb
mwl
mai
spa
nso
kaz
hat
nrm
csb
pol
slv
lrc
lmo
nld
hbs
nav
ron
kan
ina
min
csb
ceb
epo
tcy
kin
nob
nno
div
frp
aym
pap
csb
mya
ibo
ron
asm
kan
lit
kom
glg
ksh
nob
als
ron
roa-tara
stq
cdo
div
pag
ton
nap
pap
krc
ast
hye
lao
lat
srd
eus
yid
min
pnb
tel
eng
ind
asm
lmo
por
zea
lin
tha
guj
sna
ckb
xho
cor
new
ast
sin
dty
grn
koi
nld
lim
ind
ibo
nep
vie
kaz
ast
mai
orm
nno
ell
pam
pdc
msa
lit
jpn
bcl
mon
grn
lao
srp
mlt
dty
ina
stq
mon
orm
pag
mar
mhr
sgs
spa
mkd
slv
sqi
slv
nno
mkd
sin
srn
tyv
hye
deu
pfl
war
zea
mlt
rue
vie
lin
be-tarask
arg
tet
tyv
kat
ast
xho
jav
ind
tcy
stq
bar
zea
kbd
pcd
rup
mkd
uig
asm
oss
kor
mai
lmo
lat
xho
dty
kan
nob
jbo
bjn
slk
ron
lao
hye
nld
lim
tat
lrc
lao
kor
nav
hrv
mhr
mya
nan
roh
ara
bel
mal
nep
stq
lrc
mlt
swe
tam
mar
cor
lat
mkd
nso
hbs
dsb
roh
fas
jav
xho
jav
xho
hat
pan
fur
als
lin
cos
oci
nds
bel
oss
tsn
kom
cat
bel
jpn
slv
pam
jpn
ita
crh
bul
nep
mdf
jbo
gag
srp
sgs
fra
guj
nds
myv
wln
bxr
sna
slv
oss
jav
ast
bjn
lez
lin
nld
nap
hak
sme
mya
mya
fur
urd
aze
rue
swa
ckb
bre
nrm
ceb
mhr
est
kaz
scn
rup
mal
bpy
kat
sin
pus
sgs
bod
oci
xho
nds-nl
bho
myv
srd
glg
lrc
epo
msa
udm
vls
kor
pag
pus
zea
aze
ltg
frp
fry
ang
fry
sqi
war
bod
mya
bul
bel
jbo
cbk
new
ton
koi
pcd
koi
eus
mdf
nav
nso
lez
vep
mal
vie
hak
cor
mlg
amh
kin
dan
scn
bxr
lad
glk
srn
mai
ron
sqi
guj
fur
fas
ltg
jav
xmf
pdc
slv
hif
vie
div
mal
mdf
ell
min
uig
swe
cat
war
map-bms
ksh
ibo
pol
pan
sme
pdc
cym
nav
aym
deu
pap
san
aym
ell
sna
sin
cor
bcl
sqi
deu
hrv
fas
bjn
pfl
nno
pap
gag
lad
nds-nl
ind
cbk
gag
ceb
dsb
lug
hat
glk
ile
kor
mai
khm
vol
new
srn
sna
stq
lez
hak
cbk
nob
pan
bre
oci
pcd
nav
new
ceb
cbk
bjn
bpy
cym
stq
hin
hbs
isl
xmf
que
mhr
mon
bre
arg
bel
cos
bho
pag
lad
nrm
pap
khm
hsb
mwl
kom
gag
csb
roa-tara
deu
mar
mai
roa-tara
tha
ksh
jpn
kan
san
mlg
kom
hat
fra
lim
ile
tat
yid
xho
tha
hun
cos
tel
bxr
eus
snd
bod
stq
ckb
jbo
bul
vep
gla
lad
swa
swa
kan
mai
oss
ava
kat
dsb
ita
ltg
kin
ton
tam
crh
deu
scn
fin
mar
pnb
epo
nap
pan
vie
bel
pam
dan
tur
ibo
lit
spa
ukr
nds
hat
ori
gag
ext
ava
amh
ang
mal
pcd
hsb
tet
rus
ind
cat
orm
hsb
isl
lad
hif
hun
hun
mai
lao
ces
hif
san
ita
fas
mlt
san
xho
amh
ron
ces
sgs
grn
isl
nds-nl
mdf
asm
kan
sme
ita
ori
min
ita
ron
hak
mri
ltg
khm
spa
hif
be-tarask
mwl
bar
kin
wln
lao
gle
ltg
ang
aym
srn
mhr
ext
jav
arg
glg
cos
sna
epo
hif
csb
spa
frp
mhr
slk
mon
aze
aym
tcy
bpy
nld
udm
kom
kbd
cat
gla
srp
mon
fur
tur
glk
lin
ceb
bjn
spa
pag
nso
pan
pdc
myv
ell
sqi
new
rup
ang
krc
bcl
oci
scn
bre
pdc
glg
wln
fur
lrc
tam
deu
tha
tha
mkd
gag
vep
bar
bod
lrc
ori
roh
mya
kom
che
kor
arg
ara
roa-tara
bod
ind
cdo
cym
eng
myv
dsb
ara
lrc
tyv
orm
ibo
arg
arg
tyv
amh
tha
vol
ang
bcl
tet
urd
mri
vol
grn
tcy
als
che
ang
sme
por
san
srd
kan
fas
ceb
bod
bho
est
lug
yid
nan
srp
bpy
ina
isl
cym
mar
san
ukr
aze
mya
srp
san
guj
scn
yid
rus
isl
ast
tyv
pnb
tel
sme
div
ina
lat
isl
lav
sgs
srn
tsn
que
tha
bcl
bre
tur
vep
kor
tyv
dsb
mon
vie
tat
crh
arg
urd
cat
bel
cym
lad
orm
war
bcl
bpy
est
yid
nds
mkd
nno
gla
nob
krc
roh
ace
dan
bre
ita
rup
ina
xmf
hbs
div
est
ang
lin
ast
oci
ksh
xmf
roa-tara
nob
eus
hak
glv
mya
bar
fao
pol
nso
rup
vls
tam
uig
ori
rup
sna
ibo
hrv
gla
olo
oci
ksh
mkd
be-tarask
sco
tet
oss
bul
eus
ksh
vie
vie
est
ksh
lez
ina
lav
dty
pag
kor
grn
nld
new
cdo
tgl
pol
dty
isl
oci
arg
dty
cat
srd
tur
fur
ksh
ori
stq
asm
lao
mlt
ckb
hsb
sco
scn
lav
rus
tel
sme
tat
lit
krc
roa-tara
eng
ces
ext
rup
mdf
olo
jpn
ile
bel
ava
hif
hat
tha
frp
ava
ita
ton
aze
eng
srd
slk
vie
ckb
map-bms
glg
cbk
tgl
snd
bpy
udm
pcd
lrc
bcl
nap
mkd
kom
krc
ceb
pdc
snd
ukr
jbo
eng
ibo
hbs
vep
lit
map-bms
bre
vls
ckb
xho
myv
srd
ori
hif
yid
tel
kaz
yid
fas
xho
crh
div
glv
tet
koi
wln
kom
pam
be-tarask
fur
hun
hak
mkd
scn
bre
hun
por
slk
mai
fur
kat
tha
nno
fry
ibo
cym
lim
frp
map-bms
san
mri
pag
hat
mlg
arg
vep
bxr
jpn
isl
hrv
be-tarask
tgl
srp
pfl
lav
swa
cdo
ang
tat
hye
swa
lat
map-bms
ibo
hbs
vls
vep
cbk
lad
che
ron
bar
uig
snd
pnb
ckb
mal
tyv
pdc
asm
mon
nso
lin
div
nrm
jav
lrc
sna
tam
kom
slv
bod
war
pus
bre
glk
kin
ina
sin
cym
war
mai
ina
nob
ext
cbk
ast
ita
gag
srn
pfl
mya
rup
hat
sna
aym
spa
scn
oci
afr
che
srp
deu
dty
hin
vls
xmf
tat
war
oss
ava
yid
hin
nap
lit
swa
bod
ara
dsb
ace
fra
mon
mlt
fao
pcd
fry
lmo
ksh
lit
wln
bar
nno
olo
fra
nds
ang
ces
ron
sgs
ori
nld
glg
sqi
cym
pdc
jbo
kaz
jbo
arg
koi
ell
map-bms
egl
ckb
bjn
ina
yid
deu
cdo
ast
nso
bar
lim
kaz
guj
srd
rus
vls
oss
isl
pan
mkd
ava
rue
hrv
oss
mlg
urd
vie
sme
rus
swa
roa-tara
cdo
jav
pfl
arg
cdo
mdf
cos
hak
urd
grn
kom
gag
nob
krc
cor
yid
kat
csb
bpy
ltg
grn
bre
nap
guj
pag
mlg
frp
hat
pus
tsn
glk
myv
ell
bho
srd
khm
nds
roh
hak
kan
tat
afr
hat
lav
hif
arg
deu
srn
epo
srn
slv
srn
be-tarask
mai
uig
dan
lao
srd
hbs
bar
dan
kan
glv
zea
sco
glk
fur
hak
ast
egl
war
bcl
zea
fry
srn
fur
hif
ceb
rup
snd
kaz
xho
hbs
afr
lat
pam
pus
ext
hif
tur
slv
kom
bar
khm
grn
olo
guj
fra
myv
mwl
spa
afr
ara
ori
rue
nap
pam
ile
pnb
ina
ibo
hun
nds-nl
orm
msa
grn
mri
ile
amh
ori
scn
san
lug
uig
sna
aym
pdc
cym
tur
urd
hin
grn
ceb
lmo
sin
pag
min
epo
slv
fin
ina
mal
hif
aym
rus
nds-nl
pfl
ibo
bul
udm
nep
fas
aym
vls
cor
hin
fin
guj
fur
vls
bre
ind
mai
wln
nno
gle
tel
kbd
nld
ori
deu
ton
pdc
gag
tel
bar
cdo
new
kaz
lat
guj
ita
ron
fin
est
tgl
udm
lao
nso
fao
scn
hif
nno
div
ind
kor
nob
ori
ron
mya
pdc
mdf
nld
gle
div
fry
kan
amh
nds
che
nds-nl
eus
bcl
srd
sna
zea
nan
ceb
hin
lin
hat
bel
bod
mar
hrv
nep
ara
pam
nep
fao
tsn
cbk
fra
lmo
nso
ara
wln
tet
roa-tara
msa
fry
egl
bpy
frp
map-bms
hak
epo
ltg
nap
cos
hrv
orm
srn
gag
ara
pan
kor
lez
ukr
mlt
nap
stq
pan
nav
mlg
bod
lao
oss
pam
frp
slv
kan
tat
ast
dty
bar
nno
fur
hye
epo
csb
krc
sqi
cos
ksh
ltg
lmo
gle
que
glg
lin
ltg
gag
sgs
mhr
bul
sin
ron
nld
csb
mon
bcl
kan
olo
hye
por
mri
fao
uig
bjn
tyv
oci
jpn
tam
lez
amh
bxr
krc
nno
lad
ukr
ace
bpy
glg
fra
roa-tara
ava
nds
san
lad
tat
ext
olo
ara
lad
hsb
pcd
nan
cor
ces
cbk
rup
ces
ltg
bre
cor
bcl
egl
tgl
jbo
bul
tyv
lit
lad
nld
ina
rus
roa-tara
ksh
deu
tha
stq
tur
tet
ukr
mkd
crh
ile
tsn
ori
snd
tam
swa
pnb
mhr
lao
mwl
gag
ces
be-tarask
ron
msa
mlt
ace
sqi
lez
ces
roh
srp
tcy
rus
pam
kan
arg
mai
min
nrm
bjn
sqi
fao
ile
min
ang
dan
frp
lmo
zea
lad
slk
fry
sme
nds-nl
nno
frp
pnb
mon
lao
fur
ara
xho
ile
ast
min
pan
tsn
zea
pan
new
map-bms
slv
srd
nep
jbo
tet
est
nds-nl
hsb
div
cor
uig
xmf
slk
nds-nl
kat
bod
mya
grn
lin
dan
nob
pan
mdf
eus
tgl
san
cym
glg
mdf
gag
bjn
orm
min
tgl
srn
msa
bod
cos
koi
bar
mkd
orm
ukr
tsn
fry
msa
fin
nds-nl
sqi
pfl
ceb
pol
cdo
ori
ibo
ell
glk
est
lez
hye
dsb
nso
fra
mlg
sqi
bod
glv
deu
mwl
srp
sin
myv
lrc
oci
new
nld
nap
bre
roa-tara
ltg
lim
olo
bod
pol
jpn
map-bms
frp
ara
sin
mkd
mkd
lit
hif
glv
jpn
hif
aze
bod
tgl
lin
nap
lit
csb
cdo
kat
div
nds-nl
ukr
sco
cor
stq
ile
snd
kin
cym
eus
roa-tara
sco
hun
ast
ile
war
aze
bel
ori
egl
gla
dty
glv
lez
rup
pag
arg
hif
hat
rue
scn
ukr
koi
tsn
lat
crh
ukr
ron
nrm
vie
oss
swa
be-tarask
ceb
pus
cym
tsn
sme
bre
tur
hbs
spa
dty
glg
pag
hye
mal
mon
ell
mlt
olo
pan
swe
lug
lug
sme
tel
myv
slv
ceb
new
bre
afr
ast
zea
slk
ukr
isl
vol
div
tyv
lim
mya
tet
vls
zea
ita
bar
msa
msa
que
egl
nds
ibo
pap
glv
csb
ast
hbs
gle
mdf
che
urd
crh
srd
lug
fas
koi
epo
crh
scn
ceb
arg
fry
glv
mon
war
gle
bcl
jav
dsb
sna
roa-tara
pcd
yid
zea
bjn
gle
jav
che
fur
bho
ibo
hak
tgl
kom
msa
zea
fas
ces
swa
tur
swa
pap
pnb
por
ile
roh
nso
asm
lit
olo
swa
gle
ext
new
div
pan
mhr
grn
fin
epo
kat
sna
dsb
bjn
hun
glk
dan
orm
koi
vls
war
xho
swe
eng
msa
roa-tara
ori
jav
fas
ton
tet
dty
hye
tha
mwl
sco
vls
xmf
ara
fur
hat
tet
nap
urd
spa
mai
asm
pfl
mdf
gla
tet
fao
ton
est
urd
bod
fin
isl
isl
arg
be-tarask
hat
als
jav
dan
fao
lad
kin
nob
jbo
ksh
bjn
hye
tam
min
san
khm
glg
glv
ind
orm
vep
pcd
csb
mwl
lug
nso
dan
nep
guj
kaz
sme
new
pol
pcd
guj
hat
fur
rup
glg
ara
aym
sna
lez
mlt
ang
mar
nob
pfl
div
slk
kaz
als
sin
tgl
hsb
fra
tel
ava
als
lin
yid
gag
bod
mhr
pag
srd
cor
oss
hat
mdf
kan
lin
nds
ron
tam
gle
hsb
ksh
rue
asm
nds-nl
csb
sco
mon
hun
oss
rue
nan
bpy
aze
ava
roh
vep
bxr
afr
hat
wln
mon
ace
als
rus
lim
kbd
pam
swe
hbs
nep
kom
ita
hat
sme
vep
nso
spa
spa
zea
olo
ksh
mya
deu
jav
lat
ind
kin
swa
ltg
kat
rup
lao
aym
tcy
vie
amh
pus
lmo
fra
rus
mwl
rup
pag
sin
ron
krc
aze
nso
ton
nds
lad
pap
deu
lao
cbk
eus
tcy
cat
jbo
cor
oss
fry
new
eng
vol
tha
dan
udm
pam
orm
vie
ace
lav
hbs
ori
fry
mlt
cbk
khm
tel
vol
gla
nep
hat
cat
vep
lrc
rue
hif
bcl
uig
cdo
udm
krc
ava
rue
ckb
udm
ace
bel
ace
que
bcl
swa
kbd
fur
egl
nld
xho
kbd
mwl
orm
slv
est
por
hun
mar
myv
egl
pcd
fao
fra
pnb
vie
crh
koi
nrm
bod
hun
map-bms
glk
cat
bod
bod
krc
hat
kom
amh
crh
guj
kan
tyv
gla
glg
bho
xmf
tsn
new
glg
pam
oci
kom
mya
uig
zea
swe
fas
hrv
mar
oss
vep
nno
mkd
snd
bho
rup
gle
rup
eus
rue
nld
fur
orm
jpn
tcy
nso
rup
hif
cym
pdc
bel
ace
tur
swa
ori
war
sin
zea
khm
pcd
ace
mya
lao
sco
ces
war
cat
aze
bod
lao
mlt
lav
khm
ind
kat
rus
che
ang
nep
uig
eus
mon
lad
sqi
lez
lrc
pap
srp
sco
uig
urd
bar
rue
slv
lim
nap
nds-nl
ext
srn
que
bul
div
frp
ces
hsb
lim
pan
srp
ara
srd
koi
pfl
epo
tet
fra
che
lav
lrc
mar
san
bpy
mon
nap
gla
nan
roh
kan
bar
roa-tara
hif
lim
ltg
myv
lim
ina
eng
mkd
ton
kin
als
roa-tara
sgs
vol
bar
sin
dty
ina
rus
jpn
tur
che
msa
jpn
mlg
tel
tet
nso
xho
be-tarask
nso
ron
lav
ara
map-bms
mya
slv
ara
min
crh
mai
frp
srd
tyv
mri
nds
hrv
tgl
tet
hbs
bod
oci
slv
mwl
lug
nap
oss
bar
sin
nds
tet
oss
dan
bel
mkd
ind
lin
aze
aze
egl
ara
tam
amh
hak
roa-tara
lrc
bjn
isl
bre
asm
khm
eus
pdc
que
pam
ace
nob
als
hsb
mlg
lit
ori
mkd
slk
jav
hat
pus
sgs
nep
kom
mhr
tat
lit
fas
ile
new
mdf
srp
pus
nrm
be-tarask
pfl
roa-tara
mlt
pol
jpn
san
xmf
srp
hif
dsb
tur
hat
ell
hbs
oci
vol
bcl
nds-nl
pam
lao
krc
bxr
eng
jbo
jpn
lez
olo
stq
mlg
asm
glg
sna
fas
lav
nds
arg
ibo
war
hin
msa
lit
ina
fin
dan
grn
xmf
new
lat
nan
bpy
orm
pag
mdf
kaz
cor
kbd
lav
pfl
ibo
pnb
ile
pap
kaz
epo
fry
rup
est
fra
tgl
tgl
bod
tgl
nld
ces
bcl
hak
grn
pap
war
arg
bar
als
ava
pan
lim
est
que
stq
hak
egl
srn
krc
vie
tha
ceb
lez
mar
eus
bod
mar
ces
lao
ext
ast
lit
scn
nob
myv
mya
rue
pam
amh
aym
kan
stq
bod
fur
dsb
jpn
ckb
ina
pcd
min
lrc
mhr
kom
glg
scn
kin
aze
crh
cat
pag
xmf
fao
lad
mai
aym
crh
bcl
pan
egl
kor
fao
hun
eus
stq
san
nep
swa
vol
cbk
tur
amh
yid
pap
eus
snd
pam
slk
ext
fur
nav
tur
ina
tet
ace
nno
sgs
olo
krc
roh
nld
nep
dan
mon
jav
aze
khm
srn
mal
oci
roa-tara
fas
fra
dsb
vie
pag
tur
pnb
ara
ast
cbk
jbo
srd
vie
ceb
tam
min
scn
gla
mkd
ukr
lav
tat
bre
bcl
div
eus
dan
asm
vie
hat
lat
krc
bel
ava
ces
bho
eng
fur
hsb
ceb
vie
nld
stq
bxr
bod
eng
ace
kan
xmf
swa
snd
pap
tat
lim
lav
vol
mkd
sna
dan
aym
guj
deu
swe
rus
fur
nan
bre
bxr
mar
fur
nep
sna
pam
mdf
eng
swa
bxr
ces
mwl
sme
rup
che
snd
new
bod
ava
tsn
nob
deu
xmf
bxr
srp
ava
olo
glk
ita
wln
pan
yid
nan
nob
mwl
nds
nso
pcd
crh
sme
aym
nav
lim
ile
tgl
ell
nso
rup
kaz
rue
mar
xmf
kaz
ron
be-tarask
mri
lrc
bho
rus
ara
jbo
stq
nno
lug
tha
nld
glk
ori
hbs
mlt
pdc
myv
sgs
lit
gla
fin
que
krc
rue
isl
gag
eus
kat
hbs
nno
srp
ast
tam
pol
bar
hif
sgs
fra
ace
rup
mya
san
ava
rus
hat
lrc
lit
uig
ibo
tam
bho
koi
arg
bod
aym
lad
fao
bcl
que
oci
fao
ell
por
pcd
mhr
isl
ron
por
ita
bcl
crh
pdc
mya
frp
ast
glg
sco
bxr
epo
jbo
sme
scn
vie
deu
amh
mri
lat
mal
sqi
dsb
pol
udm
bxr
ita
ava
bre
fry
hif
pfl
mri
div
uig
lav
tat
jpn
ceb
ina
bjn
ara
tgl
udm
vep
mal
kin
pcd
kbd
kaz
spa
nan
gag
kom
ext
mon
srd
tam
nld
mkd
roa-tara
oci
roa-tara
gag
bul
div
nan
sin
slv
nap
lim
vol
afr
gle
ind
cbk
bpy
mkd
msa
rue
nav
mkd
ltg
xmf
dan
csb
bho
asm
isl
pfl
mon
aym
ile
sme
dan
lav
zea
nds-nl
fin
cor
nso
bel
glk
hak
mon
tyv
fry
urd
nrm
ara
bjn
xho
lat
krc
est
tsn
ton
lit
sgs
aym
als
lit
ext
jbo
ara
fao
ast
khm
mai
urd
pan
roa-tara
lao
sqi
mri
gle
rup
jpn
als
tel
mwl
war
kor
slv
mlt
cbk
mlg
mar
tam
vol
dty
san
olo
hrv
ori
fao
gag
tsn
cym
kaz
nan
cat
nan
spa
lav
myv
mdf
mlt
epo
tet
ksh
guj
ksh
ile
div
pcd
fur
ukr
myv
mkd
ltg
sgs
roh
rus
kaz
que
srd
srd
hbs
che
pap
ckb
ile
kbd
min
crh
als
ast
tet
guj
tat
slv
fas
pus
xho
mon
bpy
san
vls
olo
eng
ibo
kaz
hun
tsn
kaz
roh
kaz
por
hak
roh
swa
mlt
pol
war
lat
kom
rue
tyv
xmf
xmf
jav
mlg
roa-tara
fao
pan
xho
eng
zea
kan
kat
hun
dan
vep
ton
ori
cos
gle
lim
slv
slv
rus
tam
min
amh
pcd
ton
ile
lug
hin
ell
pan
hrv
san
ina
mwl
ind
dty
vol
rue
orm
bel
eus
amh
bul
glk
hak
nap
egl
san
udm
afr
cor
nav
pdc
grn
min
aym
lao
por
als
vls
dsb
div
ell
sco
dsb
war
ara
lad
kom
ceb
gla
sgs
mkd
rus
stq
eus
ori
pam
lug
swe
hin
tur
cos
bcl
asm
ukr
tet
orm
aym
rup
kaz
nrm
bel
est
bre
oci
lao
kaz
sna
sna
xho
ava
fin
glv
tur
mon
urd
nep
che
ang
bul
mlt
deu
spa
tyv
hin
jpn
isl
lmo
krc
que
bcl
tgl
oci
lim
ton
mkd
mhr
arg
uig
roh
xho
kat
slk
fao
pol
kbd
oss
tcy
bar
koi
pnb
div
mdf
nds-nl
lug
khm
pdc
mdf
lez
scn
stq
dty
pan
rue
ell
cym
pcd
bjn
snd
nrm
urd
hin
kin
lat
yid
fra
bel
grn
tur
bel
sme
rus
fao
kin
hye
khm
deu
lrc
gla
sqi
amh
por
nds-nl
sin
lez
cbk
als
kaz
bcl
lad
myv
pcd
hif
frp
ell
ara
ukr
crh
stq
kbd
mlt
nav
spa
est
ell
hin
kaz
ton
myv
nso
tcy
yid
hrv
div
bxr
ceb
dsb
oss
bul
nld
vep
frp
lao
lmo
asm
kor
pdc
amh
fur
pfl
als
scn
bho
vol
crh
ina
kaz
hin
myv
crh
aze
bul
bul
ara
wln
be-tarask
ibo
kin
est
grn
mhr
xho
dsb
egl
wln
cbk
map-bms
pap
crh
arg
ckb
vol
srn
ckb
deu
lim
urd
swe
khm
lad
ukr
stq
nep
jbo
hrv
isl
egl
tet
nld
roa-tara
bar
san
vep
lrc
hun
cos
hin
spa
pan
bre
nrm
pus
fin
oss
lat
roa-tara
san
nan
ava
wln
nld
que
amh
lim
bcl
hin
vie
kin
csb
xho
khm
ckb
arg
ksh
tcy
glk
frp
ukr
nds-nl
srn
tat
pam
tur
kan
kbd
lim
jpn
kin
ita
dty
pap
cdo
hun
myv
nrm
hbs
eus
oci
ava
pfl
lez
bjn
bho
ast
pan
nds
be-tarask
hat
est
vie
ina
nap
snd
bxr
ile
hsb
ina
tsn
sqi
kat
cdo
lit
msa
tur
nep
fur
tel
ita
jpn
mlt
ina
myv
hin
pol
ron
mhr
tel
aym
scn
lit
rue
por
ron
crh
pdc
ksh
urd
mya
udm
mya
war
tat
wln
pam
ara
mlt
vep
afr
fas
slv
fra
mon
snd
cbk
est
div
ina
ava
jpn
por
stq
glk
jav
ace
pam
epo
ckb
lad
asm
kom
que
srn
bar
xmf
bpy
lit
pag
ori
ori
che
sin
kor
war
pfl
sco
lit
crh
lez
ori
ltg
uig
ast
asm
ell
bho
roh
frp
gle
ces
dan
kom
hsb
glg
ang
kaz
ind
vep
lao
nso
vls
pam
kan
lez
kan
che
mri
kin
tha
sme
wln
amh
bho
ita
fry
bul
srn
jpn
lav
mkd
sna
crh
bxr
hin
ron
mkd
fra
snd
nep
aym
nrm
amh
lug
crh
bre
mal
crh
pol
bjn
nds
pol
eng
bpy
ell
sme
hsb
ltg
urd
nds-nl
dan
oss
lmo
bpy
glv
bpy
srd
bar
dty
hif
jav
msa
mwl
tgl
swe
gla
roh
aze
rus
bel
srn
arg
eng
nan
fry
ara
ckb
hye
stq
fin
rup
mlt
stq
guj
war
sgs
mhr
ton
pan
kom
nap
ara
aym
jpn
pcd
tet
koi
che
bjn
ind
pam
yid
jbo
csb
kat
bcl
kaz
ast
vls
tcy
bpy
gag
myv
mdf
tha
bar
kor
kom
fao
slv
ava
sna
map-bms
lrc
snd
scn
ile
be-tarask
slv
bcl
mri
kan
tha
ori
mya
ile
ile
lao
lrc
mlg
mhr
pan
fry
glk
urd
tsn
uig
tur
ind
kom
frp
fur
cym
udm
bxr
nan
pap
nso
hak
ext
ell
olo
cdo
pam
ton
ita
bod
mhr
que
pol
jbo
cos
bre
cat
ceb
ltg
snd
tgl
eus
hak
asm
amh
tcy
pam
sna
tgl
pap
nno
hin
ell
uig
nav
nno
vol
isl
nds
vie
div
pdc
fin
dty
hrv
mdf
mlt
tyv
bpy
por
deu
sqi
vls
nld
tyv
oci
glk
stq
que
roa-tara
lin
hin
tgl
arg
glg
ava
ksh
sco
kaz
hif
oci
ltg
bcl
nav
deu
pfl
lim
pap
nno
cat
pam
pfl
hak
guj
que
vie
kat
udm
bcl
pan
pnb
bjn
min
srn
ksh
mai
fry
pdc
pdc
bod
lad
bcl
nrm
hbs
est
mlt
nav
hbs
fin
bho
ron
orm
urd
ina
lat
nrm
sgs
glv
snd
sna
mon
oci
eng
mar
ksh
lad
ang
swa
eng
sco
por
nds
hbs
bel
lug
nap
hat
tgl
ckb
jbo
fas
glv
ina
stq
eus
ace
cat
bjn
sna
be-tarask
isl
glk
hye
est
xho
pol
mar
bel
nap
hak
fin
tsn
kom
div
vep
mlt
nds-nl
ukr
gle
ita
oss
ava
bod
div
che
pam
gle
nap
eng
ile
crh
ind
ext
swe
kbd
srd
deu
lao
fin
fas
lug
xmf
hin
bod
lrc
hbs
mdf
krc
srp
bre
nap
kin
bxr
hun
mal
nob
bho
ltg
sin
mon
tsn
cym
tel
gla
cos
ext
kbd
glv
stq
bho
yid
cor
ton
pol
mhr
uig
nld
new
zea
lit
sqi
ast
ang
fin
ibo
ina
fry
cbk
mya
lmo
ita
hif
hif
frp
ast
lez
cos
msa
krc
cbk
sme
lim
deu
guj
koi
nrm
mlg
tet
xmf
kom
spa
srp
ext
pnb
nds-nl
ind
zea
mya
rue
hrv
khm
xmf
tam
lit
dan
tsn
dan
cbk
pol
pfl
hsb
sin
dan
rup
aym
slk
ext
xho
pag
grn
nan
krc
mwl
gla
srn
che
nso
scn
frp
mwl
nrm
nno
cat
deu
swe
jav
slk
nrm
div
mdf
vls
wln
cor
ckb
mhr
nrm
gla
jpn
ton
grn
por
pag
afr
roh
fur
lat
hak
eus
tha
pag
aze
min
fra
bul
lat
dsb
vls
arg
bjn
stq
pam
tsn
fur
ron
lez
sco
scn
frp
be-tarask
fur
vls
guj
fao
myv
dan
vol
nav
ltg
sme
hif
pap
lug
cos
guj
pol
tet
mon
sgs
khm
bho
pdc
pag
mdf
ang
ang
aze
que
sin
msa
mya
gla
mkd
bcl
glk
nso
mar
est
mon
ceb
cdo
bul
ton
nap
dsb
ind
tur
mlg
arg
urd
pol
grn
sme
amh
oss
ang
lrc
udm
koi
fas
lao
tat
lin
xho
cat
oss
rue
hin
yid
hun
koi
ces
oss
glg
ara
urd
pag
mdf
urd
glg
nno
lrc
krc
oss
rue
zea
pus
xmf
tha
ace
yid
fin
pag
pus
slk
slv
pdc
zea
gla
nap
lrc
pol
mri
vep
gag
lav
ava
lav
egl
ksh
ast
yid
mdf
pcd
tsn
mlg
ltg
rup
cym
glk
csb
khm
mwl
roh
orm
fry
que
mhr
fur
spa
oss
grn
hye
mlg
san
nds-nl
ibo
roh
bcl
lim
mri
fas
kin
ina
pap
yid
est
nrm
nds
lug
kan
roa-tara
bod
tur
koi
pol
afr
roa-tara
stq
mar
bjn
ton
lug
mhr
oss
kom
est
deu
nld
mya
orm
roh
hun
hun
lao
xho
stq
isl
asm
epo
cat
pnb
vol
guj
swa
aze
ell
gle
zea
nav
sgs
lmo
stq
khm
san
arg
fas
tel
pcd
yid
pap
xho
grn
mar
war
olo
ron
tet
epo
slk
pfl
kat
xmf
mwl
snd
min
mon
ile
lav
bpy
hbs
hsb
lit
dty
nds
guj
ori
lad
mdf
mri
rue
swe
glg
hsb
div
ile
olo
new
cym
rup
myv
ara
udm
cat
war
sgs
mri
bar
tel
eus
ton
bar
mya
pus
nso
map-bms
kom
mon
pol
hye
pap
pol
pol
hbs
slk
kat
cym
tur
ksh
rue
uig
fur
glv
lav
mhr
stq
tyv
tur
ell
che
lug
hun
tet
ltg
eus
ukr
san
srn
arg
lez
lrc
lad
nrm
mdf
tat
fra
tgl
scn
fry
bar
myv
zea
kat
fas
ori
uig
che
jpn
tel
mlt
ace
hak
mai
nrm
lad
epo
nob
lit
jbo
vol
jav
ina
nds-nl
min
roh
tet
yid
tsn
nld
mri
ell
lao
uig
mdf
sme
sna
afr
ckb
ell
guj
tur
lez
oss
ang
kom
nav
csb
ton
snd
lmo
sco
nav
slk
asm
hrv
sco
ara
cdo
egl
nno
ibo
rue
nno
lao
zea
mlt
vep
mdf
que
dty
cos
hbs
eus
scn
nep
vol
ori
aze
nav
krc
ext
jpn
cor
kin
lim
sgs
epo
kan
nso
swe
kaz
ace
lat
amh
jav
cbk
bel
snd
sco
sin
por
swa
cat
tam
fry
spa
be-tarask
nds-nl
rus
tha
por
lad
hif
ell
ell
ukr
uig
nso
aze
glk
fin
mkd
yid
bod
lad
ksh
bre
ita
mwl
tcy
kom
cym
mal
glg
nld
ckb
mya
pfl
eng
myv
slv
epo
bar
nep
sna
por
bcl
rue
mkd
bul
lav
kin
hbs
war
crh
lit
msa
pnb
arg
nno
pag
ltg
sin
jbo
nds
egl
deu
slk
lao
ksh
lez
srn
scn
mlt
lin
isl
pdc
ara
tur
nso
uig
min
nld
srd
tet
lin
wln
tcy
lmo
ltg
tel
tha
mal
ces
hsb
lit
ita
lez
lez
ksh
kom
nob
eng
pol
ile
bxr
mai
csb
tcy
wln
tat
ita
ces
hbs
pag
fao
pap
slv
che
ceb
als
por
glg
grn
mkd
tel
vol
fao
tcy
dty
aze
grn
nds-nl
hye
rue
hbs
fas
glg
glv
be-tarask
fra
kaz
ckb
hbs
nrm
bar
vol
ceb
be-tarask
ita
vie
tam
map-bms
fin
krc
aym
bar
vep
lav
mon
rup
nrm
est
amh
mhr
hun
dty
slv
asm
gle
xho
mwl
ang
nld
ava
hye
hak
roh
bre
lim
jav
nds-nl
lug
hif
ina
kor
bre
oci
slv
ang
fao
hin
aym
ast
udm
bel
aym
nap
bar
tam
sgs
arg
ton
glk
srd
khm
nap
koi
nep
tam
deu
lim
lrc
krc
nld
swe
pol
mkd
koi
hin
nds
srn
aym
hsb
bre
map-bms
roa-tara
dan
slk
srn
ibo
ukr
bho
sme
wln
mon
cos
aym
gle
hat
ace
spa
fur
mlg
oss
sco
sin
nan
yid
lmo
mkd
pol
ile
che
ukr
bho
nld
pag
bre
glv
sco
urd
pap
ton
stq
egl
ksh
arg
bre
pol
ita
div
nds
swa
jbo
lit
sna
nrm
fao
pol
bjn
sgs
wln
kat
slk
dty
myv
mhr
jav
tur
nav
lez
mkd
ron
glg
ile
ile
tsn
mhr
rus
fur
ceb
dty
oci
bxr
lav
rup
orm
nep
hin
ace
div
glg
san
tur
min
mon
nso
glv
swe
tur
urd
fas
lmo
lez
est
csb
ibo
swa
tcy
vol
gag
mkd
asm
rue
lin
tel
zea
tur
slv
lmo
lin
mlt
xmf
min
krc
bel
xho
bxr
mya
wln
fry
wln
ceb
lav
ace
uig
msa
bod
snd
ltg
bre
kat
tat
nds-nl
bre
mri
hun
mar
arg
krc
snd
oss
srd
hak
que
bpy
cor
ori
pnb
vol
nld
war
sco
kaz
be-tarask
dan
slk
frp
glv
tat
snd
ltg
por
kan
cdo
dsb
lat
lrc
bel
eng
map-bms
sme
crh
cym
mdf
rus
bpy
tgl
new
bjn
hat
slv
xmf
lim
gle
ext
koi
pus
tha
jav
lmo
tet
roa-tara
lez
fry
eng
kbd
rus
bxr
div
sgs
myv
bar
csb
kaz
aym
nso
epo
mon
orm
egl
bjn
fur
tam
wln
yid
sin
ara
rue
gle
lim
stq
be-tarask
nav
div
lin
fas
be-tarask
glk
gag
kor
roa-tara
ind
urd
rue
lao
ile
cbk
kaz
guj
cbk
srp
msa
bho
kbd
jav
ita
ara
san
vie
rup
nap
tat
tha
lug
jav
est
aym
vep
lao
tam
mya
mhr
spa
hbs
hat
mai
hye
mal
hak
yid
bjn
bho
rup
mwl
cdo
tcy
lrc
srp
lug
lin
pfl
spa
xho
lin
ext
nan
hsb
eus
pdc
lug
khm
pam
fry
est
frp
mya
tet
lat
ext
gla
dan
kor
hsb
nno
swe
swe
hat
div
lao
pap
bul
hak
mhr
che
fra
por
hun
hak
lat
mlt
snd
afr
cor
bul
jpn
tat
amh
tha
srd
sme
ton
cat
pnb
sgs
fas
udm
roa-tara
stq
war
kom
als
nld
jbo
wln
vie
pap
ang
mal
csb
oci
jpn
que
ara
fry
khm
glv
ckb
bar
lmo
fur
kat
cbk
lim
sgs
lug
kom
lad
hif
ces
ang
lin
pcd
eng
bel
xho
gle
stq
sin
fin
ace
dty
rue
eng
lez
hbs
ext
eus
mkd
slv
pan
kor
hbs
cdo
rue
aym
que
egl
pfl
cdo
eng
sna
san
nrm
min
isl
pol
asm
lmo
que
fao
tet
koi
oss
jpn
ara
crh
vls
asm
dan
tyv
arg
snd
mdf
sgs
udm
eng
nrm
swa
hif
sgs
xho
fry
bjn
mal
orm
mdf
lav
hat
lad
glk
fur
rue
pnb
ang
roa-tara
nno
isl
fas
nep
div
por
mkd
mri
deu
nep
udm
srn
hrv
fin
ell
bjn
xmf
ces
mar
cat
fry
ron
dty
tat
isl
que
sna
ibo
pcd
glg
fur
msa
krc
jav
tha
fin
ava
srn
arg
pdc
lin
roa-tara
zea
cos
ile
glv
krc
nds-nl
por
vls
tgl
ind
ton
hun
lin
jav
kat
hat
hif
glk
fra
fin
bel
kaz
gle
new
kaz
sin
hin
tur
mlg
rus
deu
pag
xho
nap
bul
bjn
pam
glg
fra
hif
nan
che
ast
ori
pan
pcd
tha
roh
pus
pan
srd
msa
new
ksh
bul
mya
bod
cym
tyv
lad
new
dty
nds-nl
mal
bar
swe
tam
grn
eus
nrm
tel
nrm
cor
tsn
ckb
spa
mhr
kom
hye
aym
pag
hbs
nds-nl
tam
myv
ltg
olo
fin
ita
hrv
gle
nds
mdf
nld
ibo
kbd
bxr
fin
slk
bcl
cor
nds-nl
frp
tha
dsb
guj
nso
bod
mwl
ori
hin
cat
ita
khm
hat
kaz
nep
mon
koi
ile
guj
snd
fra
tyv
uig
cdo
pnb
roa-tara
pus
map-bms
vls
fas
frp
cat
kaz
kaz
hat
ron
pdc
hbs
tcy
urd
nso
fra
tsn
dsb
srd
vls
ces
mlg
xho
ile
frp
hin
scn
pnb
fas
jpn
msa
deu
dan
crh
asm
spa
pcd
msa
por
rup
ori
ina
kaz
glk
ukr
hat
vol
cos
ces
nno
cbk
ces
stq
epo
snd
kat
msa
oss
mon
vol
lat
grn
ron
ces
ori
tyv
que
tcy
ina
sco
kin
bar
tel
ind
ext
sme
pnb
ava
hif
sin
dsb
rus
ell
orm
tat
hat
nds
be-tarask
mal
srd
tat
aym
epo
srd
ceb
hun
scn
deu
grn
pcd
wln
tcy
lav
mwl
hrv
ile
jav
ibo
cym
afr
slv
hrv
srn
jav
pam
mlt
dsb
hak
sin
mlt
oci
mlg
nrm
grn
mhr
eus
nds-nl
hat
nep
afr
tsn
deu
spa
pan
glg
deu
vie
olo
jav
als
que
nds
bod
nrm
udm
ron
fur
wln
lad
mal
tat
ita
pus
cat
que
egl
hrv
ibo
yid
tcy
xho
cat
lmo
hak
gle
mwl
jbo
pan
bho
uig
crh
xho
kaz
crh
ile
be-tarask
cym
lat
div
guj
tyv
sin
be-tarask
mlt
lit
lao
swa
sin
asm
ibo
que
olo
tat
lad
glv
ckb
aze
jbo
hrv
nno
cbk
war
afr
swe
lit
mri
oci
bpy
sme
frp
als
bar
csb
csb
vie
hif
map-bms
bxr
mya
hbs
sqi
ina
fas
pnb
new
lit
srn
mya
stq
tat
hrv
cbk
tet
cbk
mal
jpn
dan
gle
tat
mlg
mya
hin
lav
pnb
scn
nds
afr
ron
mai
vep
hif
lad
ell
cat
kom
gag
khm
san
pag
orm
khm
ksh
aym
cym
eng
nds-nl
hrv
vol
pnb
ton
aym
sqi
myv
que
uig
est
ast
kor
vie
swe
bod
csb
mhr
lad
jav
ext
ltg
tel
gla
sme
dan
hsb
lat
swe
bxr
lmo
kin
new
ltg
nob
tat
cor
nds
nno
uig
bpy
mri
lat
mai
tet
cdo
san
mlg
pap
hin
oss
aym
pdc
hak
csb
asm
kin
cdo
hak
glv
jpn
ori
ori
roa-tara
hsb
ltg
rus
lat
vep
lin
hif
hrv
uig
fur
pol
fas
hrv
bod
tcy
ukr
kaz
swa
koi
hye
scn
mlt
orm
bre
mar
vol
sin
ast
ton
udm
ibo
sme
scn
mdf
fra
bre
kat
pam
ckb
fin
lit
dsb
fin
por
pol
swa
crh
dty
sgs
lat
dan
olo
roa-tara
lad
roh
bjn
ile
ibo
koi
vol
bar
pnb
ton
new
epo
jpn
srp
amh
ltg
amh
stq
kin
hin
pcd
map-bms
nso
mwl
tcy
tha
tgl
ksh
cat
cor
map-bms
war
ast
eus
map-bms
tel
lad
pan
jbo
bul
tam
jpn
hbs
nav
pcd
nno
sco
bpy
fin
bod
asm
pnb
bre
min
yid
ang
lez
asm
ext
vep
mhr
kor
hak
afr
koi
ava
kbd
sqi
als
mdf
scn
glk
bel
udm
swe
slk
hbs
bjn
lin
sme
lav
oci
mai
eus
crh
hun
eng
tha
ava
vls
hat
lin
dan
slk
mkd
koi
hbs
olo
zea
tsn
dty
vol
kbd
cor
egl
tyv
fao
olo
tam
aze
lit
mwl
lav
tat
mlt
vol
hak
cos
nso
ind
hak
gla
mon
hrv
ace
be-tarask
egl
pap
nep
ext
slk
udm
crh
cor
gle
arg
tam
bjn
eng
rup
jbo
mar
ltg
war
dan
mlt
aze
cos
snd
rus
pcd
be-tarask
srd
nrm
cor
kom
bxr
lin
lad
mya
bre
hsb
lug
vls
kbd
zea
fas
nav
snd
oss
ceb
pnb
xho
srd
be-tarask
csb
kom
csb
fry
est
mai
aym
ceb
kor
lat
afr
fur
wln
cdo
cdo
fas
ibo
nso
tat
krc
lad
sco
nrm
cat
que
als
lao
nan
sco
ton
ina
msa
sme
ara
pnb
lao
sme
olo
ind
yid
orm
mon
cos
srp
dty
pol
kaz
jpn
bre
mdf
lad
rup
hye
aym
pap
orm
nds
hat
wln
gag
tur
que
vol
myv
gle
pdc
slv
nob
glg
urd
dan
tet
cat
fry
rus
hif
cat
fao
amh
che
lav
ori
nob
slk
srp
cdo
pol
wln
ind
mlt
krc
tet
hye
pap
pol
fra
san
glk
eng
vep
lad
vie
pam
khm
vep
hrv
sna
eng
est
lad
ukr
nan
tsn
sin
ara
mai
que
ina
cdo
isl
ksh
war
bar
kat
che
bar
ind
pap
ind
tha
pcd
glk
bel
glv
kaz
cat
guj
lad
est
vep
mkd
csb
snd
lit
nrm
war
pol
lug
koi
glk
nan
hye
mal
war
hin
cos
egl
arg
jbo
ita
ina
cat
cbk
roh
epo
cor
pan
tur
ton
nap
asm
dan
orm
fin
pdc
ile
hif
kan
glv
ceb
lit
dsb
pus
mri
ina
sin
glg
be-tarask
afr
nno
bpy
nld
aze
nav
jav
krc
dan
bel
nso
ara
fin
hun
nds
mhr
jpn
lao
pol
mhr
frp
oci
ceb
afr
hif
tam
snd
cdo
pus
amh
grn
mhr
khm
mlg
msa
nrm
egl
epo
bxr
ita
sgs
ava
srd
lim
vol
wln
hun
sco
mlg
xmf
xmf
snd
ind
new
lim
ibo
tgl
hun
gag
lin
be-tarask
vie
als
hat
hrv
stq
ile
ava
div
cym
msa
nan
tet
glv
fas
srd
ces
nso
kin
hrv
bpy
mri
egl
oss
mdf
war
urd
amh
scn
srd
sin
mwl
nep
gle
mal
kin
yid
new
div
nld
grn
uig
ceb
snd
gle
mal
krc
aze
zea
nav
kaz
ibo
ceb
eng
hrv
dty
tsn
min
cym
war
tyv
kan
lrc
bcl
nds-nl
nds
lin
aze
hbs
sco
ast
jpn
tyv
hin
jav
bul
nob
guj
fra
pcd
ton
vie
hrv
jpn
koi
oss
nds-nl
bre
tet
ceb
lit
ibo
slk
hun
cat
mya
hun
als
afr
be-tarask
scn
pus
lim
xmf
gla
glv
lad
rup
hin
gle
bul
fas
glg
mlt
kan
tsn
amh
lrc
bel
por
bho
ile
nrm
nav
epo
bpy
tsn
mon
pus
cos
srp
ltg
pap
est
ang
msa
uig
nds
myv
new
nap
myv
oss
asm
frp
tat
pcd
oci
nap
aze
tcy
ext
pag
sin
hrv
arg
bcl
fin
ext
ace
grn
pan
mya
ron
tha
uig
slk
slv
ita
oci
slk
mar
epo
bul
fao
tha
new
cor
krc
als
tyv
ibo
cym
mar
tel
ceb
pap
ava
san
bjn
ukr
snd
cdo
mon
pag
hak
eng
csb
fao
lez
csb
amh
ceb
dty
wln
hun
mkd
ita
min
ton
tur
nep
sgs
ces
nno
tcy
snd
vie
nso
pap
lug
arg
grn
mwl
nap
hak
glg
hye
bre
bar
lug
bod
pcd
sna
que
oci
frp
ibo
srp
ita
ava
bpy
lrc
oci
ukr
lat
tet
stq
lez
mri
san
koi
eng
bar
spa
tgl
pdc
mai
bel
kat
crh
ukr
nep
war
glg
hif
als
nep
est
bul
ext
jpn
mai
nap
hsb
mkd
hat
gla
roh
fry
roh
fin
roa-tara
srd
glg
mal
udm
urd
vol
war
ron
hun
tet
oci
ckb
tsn
vep
nep
tam
nan
ast
bjn
que
jbo
che
wln
srp
map-bms
eus
mya
lin
sin
tcy
cym
vep
mri
snd
fur
ton
pnb
myv
ita
mlt
scn
ang
ace
arg
rup
bel
pag
cbk
que
uig
sqi
isl
hin
mar
lat
fra
msa
pol
kbd
pag
ceb
arg
nds
ron
isl
myv
ara
vie
srd
tyv
ksh
orm
war
tha
lmo
ind
isl
bjn
pap
sgs
bod
mdf
xmf
deu
lad
ext
vep
ell
lmo
epo
glk
pol
pol
lin
pam
lav
bod
kom
crh
pdc
srp
rup
fin
san
amh
ksh
isl
rue
bre
olo
tha
pol
eng
ceb
srn
glk
msa
hat
san
ast
ast
cdo
vie
hbs
mri
arg
pol
oss
xho
kin
cdo
pag
ind
bjn
ace
che
dan
myv
glv
pol
urd
sin
hat
kbd
orm
ksh
fur
roa-tara
glv
slv
nds-nl
bxr
tat
slv
tam
lim
bpy
nld
orm
nep
ces
spa
pcd
glv
mhr
pus
jpn
olo
gag
gla
koi
mlt
ukr
ori
ang
lat
swa
que
sgs
rus
mhr
vie
swa
mya
nso
nno
asm
est
war
nrm
ltg
kaz
ckb
slv
nds
roa-tara
rup
kom
cat
roh
tyv
ksh
est
hun
aze
afr
ava
sco
snd
aze
oci
mya
ile
aze
xho
ceb
vep
sme
pcd
scn
fra
hif
fin
gla
tur
isl
aym
bar
orm
mlt
kaz
myv
afr
mhr
bho
udm
fao
ces
swe
sna
bar
sme
aym
epo
lao
hun
grn
kin
hun
ell
mai
scn
orm
glv
bar
dsb
ibo
swe
be-tarask
tsn
lin
ell
ces
myv
war
nso
kan
ces
nan
min
nan
tcy
ast
kbd
san
tsn
myv
ibo
srn
epo
mal
vie
pus
orm
bxr
mri
deu
zea
mlt
lin
mdf
bho
ton
rus
cdo
bod
nrm
hat
jpn
che
dty
che
ukr
ksh
ron
kaz
epo
bar
vls
yid
lav
nrm
grn
rup
stq
sgs
be-tarask
ast
nld
uig
tsn
arg
pol
div
pag
nan
hat
kat
isl
tyv
hak
csb
ell
kom
gle
dsb
wln
ori
wln
ext
lav
ibo
fry
pol
als
mdf
hat
fra
cym
urd
xho
lad
sgs
mhr
sgs
srd
mlg
ava
gla
kbd
orm
mlg
mal
kan
aze
mon
bho
tha
san
kin
srp
tet
fas
ava
mhr
bpy
dan
ces
snd
tgl
kin
nan
lug
cbk
aze
tur
hsb
pcd
ori
oss
fas
hat
mai
ina
tel
bho
ces
hye
tat
ltg
kom
oss
ext
ext
sgs
ton
nds-nl
min
orm
srp
map-bms
eus
wln
lit
kin
kin
hat
dsb
aze
rup
tel
lat
fin
scn
srn
hat
nno
afr
bho
roa-tara
div
tha
lmo
bul
spa
ces
nep
yid
als
zea
kin
vie
epo
bho
tat
koi
glv
olo
ext
cym
kin
bod
ina
afr
lim
ukr
kat
deu
pdc
lmo
lrc
cbk
lad
glv
pan
nds
ind
mhr
pag
amh
grn
tel
nob
mdf
nrm
cbk
slk
pfl
glv
kin
pus
nds
ckb
nso
pnb
zea
crh
ron
mri
guj
mar
csb
bho
roa-tara
che
pan
che
pnb
slk
swe
nds
vie
mwl
lmo
mai
ina
war
vol
crh
gle
gla
eng
pfl
aze
lav
snd
fas
ceb
mlt
srn
nld
ara
deu
pcd
jbo
ukr
tha
mdf
mar
cat
spa
nrm
roa-tara
dsb
pam
pcd
sme
bul
crh
khm
khm
mlt
pol
nep
nav
vie
tat
asm
san
fur
cdo
mdf
asm
lao
ibo
pdc
bpy
ell
est
mai
khm
gla
bho
gle
tyv
cbk
gla
bul
nep
kom
fur
nds
pfl
mri
guj
ceb
ton
lrc
pfl
war
bel
dty
fin
map-bms
div
bcl
fin
ibo
pam
fas
krc
csb
lrc
pag
fur
cdo
lez
lat
ell
pap
lit
nds-nl
fao
ara
new
pfl
ckb
ind
epo
zea
uig
tet
tcy
kom
san
kan
ukr
nan
dsb
orm
khm
min
glk
ton
dan
nav
vls
ltg
asm
eus
mwl
ace
glv
lav
mlt
mya
asm
myv
mal
oss
oci
oss
nso
tgl
ron
war
ina
bcl
lim
kor
xmf
srp
sco
bel
tur
xho
bxr
zea
epo
che
aym
aym
cym
pdc
ckb
lav
lad
udm
be-tarask
urd
tam
aym
jav
bul
koi
spa
cbk
zea
bod
rue
sin
vol
bar
lin
fur
sgs
lit
mar
vie
mlt
mdf
ext
min
vls
scn
ckb
srp
lat
kin
tet
mdf
bho
xho
tgl
mai
tyv
ast
ckb
pam
nan
cos
nap
lao
mri
bjn
swe
bar
hin
olo
hbs
mlt
nld
mai
mkd
div
nav
crh
ang
che
ang
fin
mar
deu
lit
mlt
war
lez
pan
tha
lug
asm
mai
grn
vie
hak
sqi
crh
urd
bel
vie
tgl
olo
ceb
orm
tet
asm
srp
pol
est
lrc
kaz
nno
bar
san
ita
kin
fra
ara
mon
bjn
snd
cos
scn
sin
mkd
egl
nep
nds-nl
por
bod
hak
map-bms
pam
epo
ceb
cor
msa
mya
yid
est
fao
mar
grn
kom
fas
bcl
cbk
map-bms
nrm
ces
orm
oss
fry
scn
war
pus
pdc
kaz
nds-nl
ang
afr
be-tarask
nds-nl
lim
kaz
kaz
mdf
nds
sme
lit
kat
cdo
hif
jpn
cbk
pdc
kin
pdc
gle
cym
krc
pdc
ell
hif
fas
grn
mdf
bjn
fra
slk
pfl
jpn
eus
deu
uig
hye
pnb
mlt
scn
tyv
ile
slv
kbd
vep
dan
lez
tat
kbd
bre
fin
als
aze
war
ksh
tat
nds
egl
ind
div
new
ori
kbd
bcl
map-bms
fas
hak
msa
gla
bul
tha
rus
myv
slk
fra
lit
fur
bul
hsb
egl
bul
rus
bjn
hbs
arg
rup
srp
mhr
msa
glv
csb
mdf
tat
hun
jbo
map-bms
glg
vep
fao
zea
pan
ell
bod
hak
que
gag
xho
nno
que
cor
msa
tel
mhr
nno
vie
est
que
bar
hun
cbk
tam
rus
xho
nld
kor
bpy
hak
dty
vol
ina
glg
stq
als
oci
yid
ile
grn
mlg
fin
ksh
mal
glk
hin
bjn
tyv
gag
nno
spa
ile
ton
pcd
ckb
que
eng
fra
bar
dan
glg
pnb
pdc
nno
sin
asm
lez
cym
myv
mal
nds
snd
tat
bpy
dan
nep
orm
mlg
div
srp
fao
sgs
fao
pol
lrc
bre
slk
dsb
hat
spa
mri
nrm
kat
gle
map-bms
be-tarask
pus
dan
kin
mkd
lmo
hsb
mal
bel
udm
min
mwl
hbs
orm
urd
ind
bxr
fao
cat
mhr
gle
san
nob
mkd
jpn
pus
mal
lit
mdf
ace
rus
kom
ast
war
est
ext
gla
hrv
ile
hif
udm
afr
sgs
tyv
dsb
hak
udm
xmf
mwl
vie
krc
jpn
rue
be-tarask
vol
pus
new
srn
hin
dan
msa
lad
mdf
lrc
bre
kor
cym
frp
est
koi
war
nap
kat
tat
por
crh
ksh
ksh
bel
mon
myv
ckb
kat
tcy
isl
ckb
ton
nld
nld
lav
mlg
fin
ron
hbs
vie
srn
hif
eng
tha
egl
nso
mlg
dan
san
be-tarask
tyv
pnb
div
bjn
san
san
lav
oss
ces
ron
ast
asm
vol
tam
olo
eng
mdf
koi
krc
guj
kor
lit
swa
hat
tur
snd
san
ltg
ksh
ind
mwl
pnb
kaz
nds-nl
zea
ile
pol
dty
cdo
lat
lug
myv
kan
mlt
min
mal
glg
hak
div
kom
ori
bel
mlt
pfl
orm
ina
stq
olo
tet
ina
tam
hin
min
aze
che
ace
pan
dan
sna
jpn
bjn
lmo
glg
ceb
lrc
zea
lez
jpn
xmf
kbd
mlg
nno
bxr
sqi
gle
ukr
fur
spa
olo
mlt
vls
tcy
ces
que
ina
amh
amh
ita
rus
fry
bar
pdc
hsb
cat
glg
udm
hat
guj
fao
bre
nap
glv
dan
cor
pcd
srp
hin
pnb
xmf
deu
lug
mlg
zea
sqi
orm
lrc
tcy
fra
glv
srp
uig
sgs
tha
vie
kat
tha
mhr
div
zea
bxr
tsn
urd
kin
kor
mal
ceb
fin
khm
ckb
be-tarask
sna
jpn
lad
scn
grn
afr
uig
nrm
pan
snd
kor
ori
bar
nld
grn
bre
mai
grn
pcd
ext
ibo
deu
wln
pap
cat
mwl
lao
uig
cym
por
be-tarask
lav
kor
pdc
cos
bxr
jav
uig
jbo
ara
rup
min
hak
orm
mri
cym
slk
snd
khm
ibo
bul
ind
mar
aze
cbk
mal
sna
bar
zea
mon
fao
amh
bpy
be-tarask
bul
slv
mdf
ceb
mon
xmf
oci
bpy
lao
csb
sqi
pnb
pfl
pol
mai
olo
pap
vep
mhr
jav
krc
sgs
slk
srd
cbk
fry
cbk
ace
mon
cat
bod
cor
gag
fry
tcy
nav
nan
ltg
grn
ceb
ibo
mwl
ibo
pol
ind
lad
egl
ori
mal
lmo
myv
nds-nl
lao
sme
frp
fur
vol
bcl
kom
mai
slv
fry
eng
sme
bod
nav
lit
myv
nds-nl
spa
als
nan
mlg
lez
vls
spa
sgs
xmf
mri
cos
mhr
lat
cos
eus
map-bms
kor
ina
ori
sme
be-tarask
por
lit
bcl
pag
hsb
bxr
tha
oci
min
slv
hif
div
bxr
est
pfl
xmf
tgl
lrc
gla
pfl
ukr
ell
ind
urd
khm
myv
nds
srd
lez
fry
roh
swa
tat
ext
khm
roh
vol
lim
map-bms
lin
scn
guj
lao
vol
mlg
hbs
kan
als
map-bms
roh
aze
pol
myv
lat
asm
mar
ksh
nav
nav
hye
mon
new
hat
fry
deu
ita
cdo
mri
jbo
uig
urd
mar
lrc
hye
ara
ind
ell
als
mri
mal
tel
rup
msa
cos
dty
ind
jav
arg
war
mdf
sgs
mdf
ita
lug
hak
ace
mlg
swa
kaz
mal
krc
eng
est
lat
zea
crh
mdf
cos
dan
msa
jav
cbk
bul
aym
msa
ast
nds
glv
cym
scn
frp
kin
xmf
mkd
por
fas
mdf
fas
swa
fra
fra
krc
san
tha
tel
ron
ext
slv
be-tarask
kbd
ara
gla
mai
lad
epo
bcl
pcd
que
pcd
tet
myv
fra
roh
sna
olo
aym
arg
slv
aym
pol
tha
min
mlt
frp
bre
csb
tsn
bpy
stq
tam
gla
spa
nso
mkd
stq
bho
tcy
deu
orm
que
aym
bul
hbs
lin
gle
nno
pag
fra
mkd
zea
hin
cos
zea
roh
ace
jpn
mkd
slk
oci
hat
bcl
dsb
asm
que
nep
ita
eng
mkd
csb
slv
ile
kaz
ang
ind
pag
kan
bod
hbs
frp
nrm
swa
pan
bjn
lim
ita
tha
udm
tel
lad
uig
ile
lmo
div
nds
vie
nob
mdf
slv
nso
por
ara
kat
ukr
tha
srp
war
rue
pam
tel
rue
ton
roh
ori
csb
hak
ksh
xho
be-tarask
glk
csb
nap
dan
koi
jpn
hif
xho
cor
jbo
ukr
ext
che
zea
ukr
slk
jav
hat
lav
guj
ace
dan
orm
cym
ast
udm
ina
jbo
zea
fry
mlg
ukr
lav
frp
tat
tat
ast
pdc
swa
pam
tcy
tsn
fur
mlt
slv
nep
nan
jav
stq
min
frp
kor
new
tcy
khm
kan
scn
roh
nap
hin
ibo
srd
srp
mhr
udm
tgl
cym
glv
hat
gla
ina
ind
sme
nno
orm
eus
tet
tat
udm
bjn
lez
afr
frp
bul
ckb
khm
dsb
jbo
krc
bel
est
vep
tat
kin
mwl
sco
slv
lad
ita
tam
ibo
dan
msa
bel
myv
olo
hun
tcy
mwl
oss
che
tet
ksh
vls
sme
tha
nep
eus
lim
crh
lrc
xmf
ibo
sco
roa-tara
que
mkd
ace
tsn
lmo
nep
gle
mai
guj
ind
tur
mar
ibo
jbo
sna
bpy
srp
dty
nap
kor
mya
eus
gag
fin
ara
glg
tcy
myv
jbo
xho
zea
swa
nso
cos
por
min
ind
fra
urd
cat
tsn
epo
ukr
sqi
bar
lmo
cbk
roh
lat
srn
ace
nob
sgs
hrv
ksh
hin
egl
gag
swa
ton
glg
swa
lat
roh
kaz
mlt
mal
cor
hrv
hat
bpy
ell
oss
tcy
udm
nav
kaz
uig
deu
tsn
tha
gag
new
new
oss
new
kat
nso
est
urd
frp
bho
ori
mri
lav
srp
bjn
tel
hsb
ara
tsn
srp
kan
nan
oci
pap
pam
nap
new
kor
cdo
ell
mdf
hsb
koi
fao
koi
ori
mri
jpn
mhr
epo
fas
stq
slk
hsb
tyv
ile
cat
cat
mya
tel
mlt
pdc
fas
por
aze
mal
oss
ori
kor
arg
zea
ext
fas
roh
kan
deu
pcd
srd
cbk
sme
srd
yid
fao
kaz
cor
bel
fin
pan
frp
jbo
nso
krc
kan
lav
nob
spa
lav
spa
nds-nl
mlg
mar
eng
swe
mwl
ita
yid
bel
nds
gle
vie
krc
hye
zea
min
rup
urd
ron
bcl
que
slv
swe
nob
tsn
tam
aze
est
tgl
che
por
pan
bjn
myv
ava
dan
kan
srd
frp
fao
sco
pcd
pan
jpn
uig
swe
srn
ind
cat
oss
sme
ltg
ast
bho
pap
koi
mon
hak
mar
roa-tara
que
frp
nep
rup
yid
ind
ceb
hak
bel
mwl
ast
glg
glg
ace
pnb
mal
pap
snd
khm
tur
mar
ron
ibo
srd
yid
mlg
ara
fry
hun
bxr
bod
vls
hun
nds
lat
ile
bod
nld
snd
eng
bod
pag
tgl
pnb
tam
bpy
dsb
ces
map-bms
lat
tam
glg
sgs
mlg
isl
pus
bxr
pdc
bel
nep
koi
tsn
kat
glg
ara
kor
jav
ron
gle
als
pol
tur
xho
ind
fur
sqi
tel
pnb
sin
nrm
kat
lez
mya
kaz
isl
cdo
bre
pdc
hsb
ava
sqi
bul
ceb
tat
sqi
fin
hsb
bpy
roh
glv
dty
eng
pus
hrv
dty
ron
udm
ltg
nld
lav
nds-nl
bho
lit
ibo
por
eng
cdo
urd
lmo
vep
bar
kan
bul
kbd
dty
kat
snd
lav
mya
rus
be-tarask
cdo
egl
hun
fra
hbs
nld
ara
jbo
new
srn
ori
crh
kin
hat
dty
wln
grn
ext
scn
ita
mar
war
stq
koi
amh
lin
dan
war
glv
glv
cor
pcd
ast
dty
jav
roa-tara
rus
gle
bcl
olo
ara
lad
lit
tsn
lim
cat
ukr
rus
crh
nds-nl
ina
nrm
nep
udm
bre
cor
lrc
eus
fur
vol
be-tarask
ckb
epo
mwl
guj
sna
oss
nep
pam
que
hye
che
sme
aym
lez
gle
nrm
slk
swa
srn
swe
yid
nds
kbd
map-bms
lim
oci
bul
jbo
mal
cdo
lad
sgs
nap
roh
slk
fin
srd
jav
amh
asm
hif
swa
fas
ind
rup
swe
nds-nl
nld
cos
bho
mhr
tsn
mon
mya
kaz
slk
eus
nap
srn
kbd
eng
glk
oss
ina
ind
eus
nld
cym
oss
tsn
che
glk
ell
mon
tur
cym
roh
mai
glk
sco
afr
udm
rus
yid
pdc
vls
ast
hun
swe
bho
aym
bxr
glv
pan
glk
arg
pnb
rup
lim
mya
oss
als
grn
mai
rue
ron
ang
nds-nl
fur
mar
nno
roh
kan
nds
ile
scn
pam
lit
nav
jav
csb
yid
nap
jbo
ckb
mya
swa
fur
slk
ckb
frp
fra
lat
yid
jpn
udm
ckb
als
cor
mlg
rue
nds
pcd
roh
egl
krc
mhr
fao
nno
pnb
hrv
amh
nep
scn
cym
epo
rup
crh
bho
srn
pdc
cat
lit
bar
frp
bod
srn
mya
glv
hye
cor
ori
mlt
bod
pap
csb
ara
kan
ell
ces
cdo
jav
sqi
stq
pfl
kat
bcl
hin
cbk
vol
pcd
vls
oci
bul
hif
olo
pfl
ara
ces
ast
aym
jpn
stq
pcd
mal
jav
gle
pdc
kan
bre
min
nep
hsb
mri
min
olo
lrc
war
kin
ibo
srn
ava
bel
als
bar
tyv
wln
pdc
olo
ori
urd
pol
mar
myv
tat
sin
slv
vep
pan
sco
kan
mya
roh
sna
tel
lao
dan
mwl
ace
be-tarask
ind
udm
wln
lat
kor
ang
xho
epo
est
oci
vls
pdc
roa-tara
fra
pfl
dty
fin
pcd
ind
pam
bho
eng
sme
dty
gle
nap
dty
mlt
gla
aym
csb
sco
nno
que
bho
lit
por
ext
dan
asm
ast
bho
ina
orm
arg
swa
uig
bxr
gle
arg
crh
est
srd
jav
mon
san
tam
egl
jpn
fur
zea
rus
hif
nav
xmf
spa
div
kom
che
sin
dty
tur
kat
mlg
olo
rup
pan
csb
mal
ang
hun
xho
guj
eng
mon
fin
vls
map-bms
ile
tur
koi
war
ina
tet
por
swa
rue
pfl
est
sqi
nep
hye
tel
tyv
hak
swe
mdf
rup
lao
scn
lav
als
oss
guj
mal
slv
nob
lez
nld
pan
tyv
dty
xmf
afr
srd
bel
vls
sna
csb
mon
crh
ces
min
msa
ava
ckb
mar
swe
lmo
war
mon
hin
kor
grn
pol
ces
min
cbk
krc
fin
min
pfl
war
ext
grn
stq
min
sqi
pcd
bpy
mon
epo
ceb
yid
udm
bpy
ext
udm
gla
uig
arg
epo
pap
roh
ang
ang
isl
hrv
rus
ell
che
war
pcd
lav
bxr
mri
ace
nap
xmf
kom
pnb
ara
gle
jav
ile
mar
pag
new
roh
mlt
mya
kom
hbs
deu
ava
ava
sco
lit
vol
mhr
tam
be-tarask
pol
pag
fao
ace
tyv
glk
oci
asm
krc
xho
dty
fra
srd
cat
bul
vol
isl
nav
lit
eng
khm
pdc
san
rus
nso
amh
vol
uig
tsn
ina
tsn
min
hak
cor
sqi
oss
kaz
xho
spa
mal
guj
ton
snd
mwl
mya
new
cbk
xmf
rup
nds-nl
fry
oss
ksh
csb
mya
urd
pfl
bar
rue
bel
scn
vep
xho
lao
aze
srn
cym
vol
war
fao
amh
bxr
bel
gle
mar
vls
min
kbd
mdf
kaz
oss
rue
aze
map-bms
roh
kat
jbo
mar
eus
vie
slv
hrv
kat
roh
lmo
jbo
ron
epo
nan
bel
pap
msa
orm
mlg
mhr
por
ace
pag
frp
yid
lat
ibo
bre
uig
tur
tha
crh
srd
kor
swe
nap
srp
roa-tara
lad
rus
kin
nno
tat
que
stq
bod
wln
deu
bxr
lad
udm
pam
csb
nso
tel
nso
min
tcy
new
ltg
nds-nl
war
vls
nav
ltg
stq
mar
ind
jpn
arg
snd
fur
udm
ell
lat
crh
egl
fra
sna
jav
sna
ang
nds
rup
kaz
dan
epo
glv
ksh
srp
roh
nno
kan
ukr
scn
kor
msa
vol
bre
sna
epo
orm
fur
lad
bul
zea
uig
bpy
mar
fry
dty
bre
fry
als
pdc
div
ell
nap
kan
roh
kbd
xho
rup
bre
cos
tha
bre
tur
wln
nav
aze
tur
mya
grn
hif
new
oss
krc
kor
hbs
tel
krc
ang
rue
ksh
arg
lit
pdc
hin
roa-tara
pnb
hak
grn
aze
mkd
cdo
deu
sgs
sna
arg
tel
roh
srn
ukr
pol
tcy
hak
egl
bre
deu
min
vls
kbd
sna
bjn
bod
mdf
msa
sco
war
ast
map-bms
ceb
nds
gle
tur
pol
spa
nob
pan
egl
rue
deu
pnb
pnb
glv
nrm
nep
ron
deu
tel
bcl
ita
jbo
fra
pcd
fra
vie
dsb
ina
bul
nld
ksh
che
zea
bul
vls
est
gle
lat
pus
mri
arg
slv
lmo
mdf
pnb
ind
lat
bpy
hye
gag
snd
hun
eus
lmo
nan
tel
ces
myv
sco
gag
stq
arg
lim
hsb
lez
ibo
nds
ltg
hun
nso
rus
mwl
asm
nno
pap
koi
swa
be-tarask
vie
nso
nds
guj
roa-tara
bjn
ton
nds-nl
tcy
map-bms
fry
tet
jbo
roa-tara
srd
vep
zea
mdf
kbd
rue
bel
nld
hsb
bre
hsb
hye
che
bpy
nap
xho
aym
ron
est
lmo
lad
aze
gla
aze
lin
sgs
est
ton
sqi
orm
crh
bxr
ton
xmf
mkd
tcy
sco
san
eng
lav
tur
xho
tha
ron
lad
nld
mhr
aze
new
snd
bel
xmf
snd
bar
bel
kat
tur
eus
ita
mar
bxr
sqi
lav
fin
mhr
ara
ina
hrv
roh
roa-tara
ukr
nno
sco
map-bms
ace
ukr
nap
bar
bel
cym
ckb
srp
fao
ckb
div
ori
cbk
isl
udm
lat
mal
epo
cor
csb
new
new
eng
sgs
lez
bel
aym
ang
cat
yid
que
aze
por
snd
roa-tara
nrm
hrv
lrc
guj
pap
mai
snd
kan
sco
mal
mal
guj
mai
aze
eng
deu
lin
pcd
nno
lat
ita
ces
mri
lim
khm
fin
tgl
bpy
jbo
orm
ang
frp
amh
hsb
ast
nso
ron
lad
lad
jav
pcd
spa
hbs
hat
sco
ind
lug
glg
ast
rup
dsb
mya
ori
que
nso
che
orm
hin
arg
bel
snd
sqi
sgs
ltg
glg
cym
epo
tur
cos
xmf
bre
olo
bcl
map-bms
lao
vep
kaz
ext
pus
lrc
sin
cbk
xmf
bpy
vep
tur
lav
mkd
egl
ina
eus
fao
kom
lao
ibo
nno
ksh
asm
frp
rup
ava
kin
tha
kat
ext
zea
pfl
nav
rup
pol
slv
swe
nep
msa
rue
ita
grn
pus
nan
bxr
tcy
nld
hsb
tgl
koi
bho
krc
be-tarask
gla
cos
grn
bxr
stq
nob
ton
slv
bpy
swa
tha
be-tarask
ina
ces
tat
nno
san
kat
lat
kaz
crh
als
gla
new
cbk
afr
pus
fry
cbk
ang
srp
ell
ast
bjn
ext
hat
mri
lit
udm
kan
bar
hif
mri
vie
che
ext
nav
fas
bjn
nld
nld
mwl
koi
sme
pus
cym
isl
glv
bar
nds-nl
ton
vep
pnb
spa
mri
fas
ksh
bre
zea
jav
jav
nap
bre
egl
lez
tam
pag
gag
roa-tara
mya
hun
pus
tet
ckb
zea
bul
dan
nan
hun
srn
ceb
sme
hak
glk
mal
cat
kor
bxr
aym
dty
cym
lav
por
hin
war
dty
lad
pam
lug
cdo
nso
scn
swa
epo
ava
glv
asm
cat
uig
deu
kor
mlt
mlt
bxr
nrm
oci
lit
fin
map-bms
san
mai
ibo
bpy
cbk
tel
asm
fao
crh
krc
mon
nav
oci
srp
ltg
bod
nso
gla
nep
hye
lit
nso
tcy
bpy
nob
srn
swe
mwl
bcl
deu
fur
lez
nno
rup
be-tarask
hun
spa
bxr
min
nan
srd
lad
san
tyv
dty
bod
glv
nld
cos
ces
tel
nep
war
grn
fra
bpy
sna
ara
nan
sin
nrm
pag
ltg
lit
nds-nl
ton
kin
san
lad
pag
fra
por
als
cym
pap
che
nob
jpn
div
cos
nrm
mdf
eng
msa
bcl
swa
cor
ava
kbd
war
lez
hat
scn
mon
pcd
scn
uig
cbk
war
kor
ang
hin
hye
pap
est
ita
lim
lao
sqi
oss
nno
roh
ang
nob
pfl
lin
lav
hak
ibo
tsn
fas
kat
lin
ori
lad
pnb
oss
pap
kin
glk
est
pan
cdo
ind
nan
nld
krc
pap
ckb
nep
gla
orm
ton
csb
vls
fur
spa
cdo
ces
eng
pan
pcd
min
ukr
hsb
cos
dty
bar
csb
bul
bel
urd
dsb
ton
kin
jpn
lmo
rus
hye
bjn
udm
jav
oss
ita
tel
myv
afr
dan
tsn
pdc
ava
ceb
lav
glv
hat
xmf
hrv
swe
bul
pam
als
lit
sme
mya
nds
tet
san
myv
hun
glv
fas
gag
rup
koi
bxr
glk
ina
ori
snd
swe
ina
ace
swa
fin
lit
glv
rup
lrc
mon
kbd
aze
spa
slv
lim
roa-tara
sgs
oci
pan
asm
pol
xmf
ces
snd
tsn
ibo
fry
tet
mlt
tyv
tur
urd
myv
nds
guj
udm
grn
amh
roa-tara
lez
nan
cdo
mri
asm
tha
por
que
lit
koi
ang
krc
oci
snd
fao
xmf
slk
ind
dsb
sme
oss
ibo
orm
bel
ckb
mdf
snd
swe
mal
bjn
ind
mwl
bul
div
srd
sgs
ang
ell
bel
jpn
tcy
stq
aze
bel
uig
cat
dan
cat
nob
lez
ceb
tgl
csb
tat
bho
lmo
kom
new
pcd
sme
ckb
bar
hat
bcl
ksh
rue
bpy
cbk
mwl
vep
ces
sin
hak
nob
fur
ton
bul
amh
est
kaz
lav
glk
vie
hun
wln
bjn
bul
srn
urd
cbk
rue
tyv
por
fin
sin
tgl
msa
srn
ang
pdc
nap
sco
cdo
fas
glk
khm
bpy
tam
tha
hat
grn
san
vie
srn
che
deu
mri
gla
lat
bre
glk
vol
hbs
lrc
cor
epo
div
srd
oss
lit
epo
oss
cbk
eus
snd
pam
bel
ceb
que
msa
mal
gag
fra
cat
ron
hbs
nrm
sin
ang
hin
sin
mal
gle
rus
lao
vls
tat
gla
lmo
khm
roh
spa
jbo
isl
csb
afr
lez
tha
bxr
als
fin
hun
ron
hin
que
grn
mkd
fas
hbs
grn
mar
kat
stq
mya
tel
mon
hak
est
pfl
srp
oss
pap
arg
oci
lrc
tcy
lit
sin
mhr
urd
lin
ina
min
cor
wln
hif
swa
sco
khm
pus
epo
mal
ext
pnb
jav
swa
slk
tha
kbd
jpn
hbs
swe
gla
hif
nso
sqi
tet
msa
crh
lit
bar
hak
uig
ava
bpy
ita
hye
fur
tat
lmo
ang
mkd
frp
kan
mwl
bel
arg
guj
bel
jbo
srn
tha
ava
aze
cos
xmf
srd
fas
lao
jav
cor
bul
vep
cdo
tcy
map-bms
swa
grn
afr
cos
pcd
hbs
ina
als
cos
udm
oss
bre
pus
bre
sgs
sin
cat
stq
hbs
pfl
ron
lug
lug
div
afr
ext
srd
ext
eus
swe
hbs
mlg
pap
vls
hak
gla
hrv
tam
fas
sme
ace
udm
hif
bxr
srn
tcy
gla
mal
sme
mwl
sco
lin
kaz
spa
ita
pdc
ton
ceb
ext
bcl
cat
swe
dsb
lao
olo
por
sin
afr
pus
wln
bxr
mon
lim
hbs
fin
tat
hbs
tel
bho
mhr
div
nob
bxr
cdo
ang
hbs
pfl
bul
koi
mkd
wln
pfl
fin
ina
cbk
nds
srd
war
glv
roa-tara
tet
tel
roa-tara
ina
vls
zea
amh
hak
dty
khm
kom
isl
deu
ell
ron
scn
glg
jbo
swa
tur
cym
lao
sco
zea
bxr
map-bms
srd
mlg
cym
mkd
ukr
tgl
hun
sqi
mkd
lad
grn
bho
ltg
lat
mwl
spa
mon
tur
kaz
xho
hun
min
vie
swa
bul
arg
lin
sgs
rus
map-bms
bjn
hat
ast
cdo
pus
pam
sin
sco
aym
kan
jav
tur
slv
mhr
isl
tat
gle
vls
rue
lez
isl
bho
vep
slk
mhr
ori
srd
ace
orm
vls
hbs
xho
sco
gle
pap
glv
vep
arg
vls
eng
swa
sna
sme
cbk
slk
vls
msa
vep
sna
fin
scn
lin
ron
mkd
isl
ara
zea
glv
hak
nob
cbk
yid
hsb
che
min
pan
cdo
mdf
rue
grn
que
dan
cos
ron
cor
pnb
nan
new
kaz
fao
hak
jpn
olo
sna
bcl
kaz
nob
tyv
deu
cor
ell
bul
ceb
myv
kom
eng
bar
als
srn
fas
mwl
tha
jav
tgl
bod
pan
nds
gag
bre
bar
lao
srd
gag
frp
gag
roh
div
slk
tur
hak
ukr
ita
ces
rus
tsn
spa
mal
pol
sgs
tsn
nds-nl
min
nrm
urd
mya
sco
bar
bxr
rup
srd
ace
tyv
fry
swe
sna
pcd
ast
kom
lrc
jbo
epo
kor
cdo
gle
sgs
grn
cbk
ell
kat
xho
ltg
ast
koi
ibo
hat
fao
lad
kbd
kor
map-bms
eng
ava
eus
nap
hak
ltg
lat
gag
ksh
srd
ile
isl
vls
che
gag
kin
min
lrc
mal
nld
mal
cor
lin
dsb
swa
nno
epo
min
yid
war
bre
sme
arg
lav
bpy
hak
ori
fur
jbo
spa
ceb
ron
ckb
fry
war
epo
cdo
gle
koi
pan
nrm
kor
mdf
lmo
san
bpy
srd
map-bms
ton
frp
nld
est
mri
lat
spa
sqi
epo
kbd
bre
ast
bjn
bre
stq
roh
rup
lad
fin
tcy
oss
grn
srn
pan
bpy
ile
bre
ita
jpn
snd
kor
ext
als
xho
kor
nep
pcd
glk
urd
min
cos
be-tarask
aze
oss
jav
bpy
hrv
hbs
nno
als
hin
scn
war
tat
ina
ava
che
kat
msa
pus
egl
nap
koi
hak
fin
rup
rue
bho
kbd
pfl
rus
fin
hif
ces
nav
bod
bod
yid
lim
bar
mar
ext
pag
tam
kaz
ksh
kin
khm
hye
tat
afr
aym
tha
tyv
asm
kin
cor
bel
grn
nan
pap
tur
bar
be-tarask
lmo
olo
lit
new
ell
ceb
urd
frp
koi
roh
mar
ron
ita
als
ksh
kan
san
nso
guj
cor
sna
lrc
oss
eng
ava
nno
ang
olo
epo
nan
dan
tgl
lim
map-bms
kom
srn
gag
als
pam
che
bcl
nrm
vls
tsn
yid
lav
fas
pdc
uig
epo
frp
jav
guj
pam
bcl
est
lim
olo
nld
gla
uig
tha
wln
sin
jpn
kom
new
udm
rup
mal
aym
san
nds-nl
bxr
kaz
dsb
nob
rup
tur
lez
pap
stq
bul
bxr
vep
srd
srd
sna
fur
ibo
gle
che
fra
bar
kbd
ast
swa
cor
kin
krc
pag
scn
mdf
urd
sna
lmo
mya
hbs
cbk
grn
pap
bjn
eus
mon
vls
nds-nl
fry
swe
mai
min
mlg
fas
nds-nl
gle
cor
cos
ckb
mkd
bul
sqi
tat
pol
ita
bjn
mri
sgs
lat
myv
hun
lmo
nob
ksh
lad
war
por
cor
mwl
glv
oci
yid
glg
lrc
sin
ind
fas
pus
que
mlt
scn
tsn
kbd
nob
nld
pfl
srp
lrc
mdf
sme
fas
ell
uig
jpn
ibo
ckb
stq
tam
nob
orm
fry
new
bul
grn
lrc
fao
hbs
hye
nob
nrm
xho
nob
bul
mon
ron
lmo
bar
be-tarask
div
kat
yid
rue
cos
hat
sme
myv
bpy
hsb
ibo
gla
roa-tara
srn
wln
fin
fry
msa
bxr
mon
asm
ext
cdo
cos
bod
kor
hbs
swa
lit
srd
khm
deu
nso
srn
pam
tcy
aze
ceb
lez
tel
pus
vol
bre
nav
tet
fin
sna
tel
epo
vep
udm
nap
jpn
ton
gla
nan
san
san
mkd
pan
ori
pag
fra
bjn
swe
lrc
tyv
bel
nav
lez
nan
ceb
kan
mri
ind
nno
dty
pap
pap
epo
jpn
fra
tyv
tam
als
pcd
tgl
vls
sme
jbo
kan
min
nds-nl
fra
est
lim
ace
kat
ori
pol
cor
olo
mon
sqi
arg
lug
glg
ceb
swa
mal
map-bms
san
rue
che
stq
que
msa
bre
map-bms
uig
als
tat
bel
amh
csb
deu
pam
nds
ast
scn
ita
kan
gla
mdf
crh
sco
zea
swe
lao
tha
gag
rup
pan
oss
nrm
isl
nrm
rus
ina
guj
ast
hbs
ton
mhr
tsn
hin
kaz
oci
lug
dsb
ext
aze
orm
epo
nap
div
vie
srp
tyv
amh
aze
ext
fas
cos
bre
nld
kan
srd
xho
mai
bpy
slv
fin
slk
frp
jpn
tyv
zea
cbk
jav
cym
new
stq
ang
mya
tcy
che
kan
slv
lrc
pan
lao
als
san
amh
gle
tur
fao
csb
kom
deu
fur
rue
cym
isl
wln
bcl
glk
ast
pap
min
khm
bel
tyv
arg
que
fra
ron
cos
nso
kaz
ara
ind
olo
lim
nap
cat
sme
gle
sco
pap
glk
bpy
mhr
pag
mlt
krc
ina
tat
ara
bho
kin
ces
jav
ile
deu
tyv
pag
ibo
mkd
guj
ron
kaz
sqi
vol
cos
bjn
lug
pag
nob
deu
nap
aym
vie
xmf
sme
jav
swa
lrc
zea
dsb
che
mwl
aym
urd
bcl
orm
lin
kom
khm
lit
ibo
vls
por
srn
rup
lao
lit
tat
hun
fra
jav
nld
san
mlg
nep
ast
urd
nds-nl
tgl
lad
deu
lrc
srp
fra
afr
nav
nep
khm
cat
sin
tel
tat
sco
nav
tgl
map-bms
orm
jav
cym
ava
arg
dty
lug
rus
lug
tyv
sme
kin
khm
uig
uig
mhr
lav
cbk
rue
cos
oss
roa-tara
bul
oss
nav
war
uig
fin
bcl
kin
rup
lao
ell
frp
dan
kat
pcd
nob
fao
bxr
amh
mkd
dty
tet
be-tarask
lug
hrv
sgs
por
sme
fra
hak
mal
sco
bjn
map-bms
lrc
lmo
lez
deu
kan
khm
srp
gag
lao
egl
be-tarask
hat
glv
cor
lat
mdf
war
swe
urd
cat
hak
bre
deu
mlg
nan
pus
epo
kin
lmo
urd
sna
nds
ava
crh
spa
ace
kor
guj
kbd
lrc
tel
ibo
kor
ace
fao
msa
roh
nso
kaz
tel
yid
roh
ile
nds
xho
jpn
mar
epo
nrm
xmf
tsn
hat
san
nld
bpy
spa
spa
lez
ksh
orm
hun
vie
por
bar
pam
pam
kaz
ava
xho
als
mon
nrm
hrv
cat
kin
crh
eng
ton
ltg
tcy
vep
fao
lez
crh
spa
lav
rus
hat
hat
kan
lug
rus
kor
fin
ltg
gla
swa
yid
ltg
ava
lat
spa
rus
spa
new
pol
sna
kin
roh
glg
csb
xmf
pcd
hak
mhr
kaz
sqi
rus
arg
srd
pus
glv
bar
bho
dsb
wln
fry
cor
lad
lav
tur
be-tarask
pdc
lit
bar
srn
fao
lav
ukr
tcy
swe
mlt
ita
bpy
ava
nno
ksh
que
mya
ori
div
zea
uig
mon
aze
krc
bre
bar
xmf
bre
nld
lad
be-tarask
asm
deu
mlt
ibo
bxr
glg
gle
tyv
roh
ara
lad
egl
kin
che
swa
frp
pan
che
que
koi
ckb
srp
cbk
pap
nob
sme
bjn
ita
bcl
lao
pap
jpn
fry
nap
lrc
srp
cos
nrm
mri
xmf
jav
pus
slv
eng
nds
mlt
koi
nap
cos
olo
lin
mya
ang
spa
asm
por
lug
gag
ara
dan
nno
hsb
scn
mhr
bre
oci
ang
war
ace
kin
glv
zea
urd
sqi
frp
roa-tara
vls
dsb
san
mai
che
hin
be-tarask
vls
lav
grn
ile
ces
fry
hun
mhr
ara
mkd
mkd
egl
kor
swa
ibo
map-bms
als
kbd
hsb
cbk
gle
hat
ton
cor
mdf
yid
vol
snd
cdo
cos
epo
rus
fra
nav
sme
udm
nep
ckb
ang
glg
oci
isl
lav
eus
ava
ava
nno
lat
lrc
ang
nno
pap
nap
nds
mai
nso
bar
jbo
ces
swa
ibo
mon
deu
lez
glg
crh
kom
swa
tha
tha
olo
nld
swe
mal
ceb
stq
lit
bel
dty
yid
nso
hrv
be-tarask
vie
lit
oci
lug
pdc
mar
xho
ava
mri
nrm
ang
map-bms
vep
glk
bpy
kbd
glv
kan
krc
ukr
bar
rup
sme
ast
mhr
glv
pfl
fas
tel
lao
wln
pap
tur
san
tel
hun
nob
be-tarask
eng
mwl
pdc
tha
lug
ukr
lmo
deu
nds-nl
eng
mlt
tha
stq
ell
roh
asm
vie
min
lao
asm
dty
kom
mdf
ind
hak
sgs
ang
tgl
ava
arg
fao
swe
ckb
als
glk
tur
lmo
vol
swe
bcl
fao
nav
ang
srn
fry
nso
be-tarask
bre
pfl
tat
mwl
mri
lmo
cym
tet
jbo
isl
egl
nob
xmf
san
ara
div
che
lav
amh
mlg
srn
fra
pus
grn
pan
pfl
fur
nap
tcy
vol
hrv
jav
tcy
eus
gle
ina
mri
nap
kbd
rue
cat
cos
yid
fry
lez
jpn
ava
cym
als
map-bms
khm
div
scn
hye
hak
kan
eus
tel
pus
ang
tur
mlt
lim
dty
gle
hbs
xmf
pag
rup
als
koi
jbo
lao
mal
eng
mkd
khm
aym
que
nno
mon
kbd
sqi
gla
pag
mon
aym
nso
rue
tel
slk
ton
hye
nso
bel
fin
uig
min
nld
bpy
ksh
bar
fas
rus
mri
tsn
kin
min
nno
ori
pcd
oci
lin
lug
hrv
sin
csb
lez
spa
por
sgs
kin
aym
glg
urd
rue
be-tarask
war
fas
mkd
kbd
mri
ast
tyv
hye
epo
roa-tara
spa
pag
eus
lug
wln
nep
lrc
csb
crh
koi
lez
ava
ksh
sgs
mkd
fra
jpn
als
mdf
amh
bcl
nan
hun
hbs
tur
kat
tat
ckb
mya
afr
fur
uig
jav
sqi
ava
ita
ang
bxr
cat
por
tcy
por
nso
glg
pol
asm
spa
kbd
ckb
ara
ast
zea
snd
tgl
srn
msa
mai
dsb
oss
mal
mal
new
sgs
nds-nl
kbd
tsn
lin
csb
snd
bre
cym
scn
cdo
snd
div
lav
srn
gla
san
tsn
cdo
fry
swa
bre
ltg
bcl
che
pap
be-tarask
ina
sna
lrc
hin
kaz
hrv
gla
jbo
swa
hye
kor
kor
asm
cor
roa-tara
que
fur
lim
ton
swe
ltg
asm
lin
glg
dan
swe
pcd
cor
pnb
dan
gle
bjn
est
cor
mon
gag
ckb
cym
sgs
lez
hif
dty
rus
che
bre
guj
isl
ckb
glg
bul
xmf
ces
que
aze
hak
oss
div
sna
frp
tcy
urd
lez
rus
yid
khm
ace
div
uig
dty
hye
deu
roa-tara
eng
kan
srn
kin
war
isl
dsb
oss
aym
pam
tgl
glv
che
ell
csb
wln
lug
sme
uig
grn
lug
srn
glg
hun
pap
stq
sme
srd
roa-tara
eus
hif
eng
isl
est
cat
kin
lao
cos
jav
egl
srp
dan
gag
sco
csb
tat
lim
sqi
pag
cbk
por
jav
hin
rue
afr
scn
nds
por
tha
ton
fin
msa
bod
tha
ile
afr
asm
div
div
tyv
lin
hsb
sco
pol
ceb
hat
lit
lao
cym
pdc
tur
dty
gle
asm
aze
kan
tat
swa
fas
lim
tsn
fao
tyv
bcl
kor
tgl
ara
rup
pdc
khm
sna
lez
ace
als
asm
guj
tet
bho
als
bho
kbd
tha
vep
srn
dsb
hat
tsn
olo
kin
lit
tur
lit
slk
bel
als
new
glk
bpy
ina
kor
div
pdc
nno
glg
lez
egl
ckb
div
frp
udm
lin
sgs
crh
ces
sqi
gle
pag
pag
bod
mlg
isl
ast
dan
ron
san
spa
ile
amh
vie
san
bel
pag
pol
tgl
bcl
fin
amh
aze
uig
mdf
nav
bod
krc
mar
eng
ltg
sme
mlt
ksh
ckb
isl
tcy
gag
krc
be-tarask
bjn
ina
cbk
mri
mya
mlg
ell
eus
lmo
ell
hat
tyv
ton
ori
nso
uig
tha
dsb
kat
fin
olo
fin
por
ces
tgl
cos
rup
pan
pnb
bho
mri
bre
pnb
kan
kin
sco
epo
ell
mon
ina
hye
slv
fas
est
pag
lao
kat
tyv
hrv
ina
pcd
scn
stq
als
pnb
lrc
pol
est
koi
wln
min
msa
stq
snd
koi
guj
lit
als
ace
uig
nno
bpy
glg
sqi
glv
sna
uig
tcy
mkd
bho
nds-nl
fas
nno
tam
tcy
bpy
ast
rue
sco
nds-nl
swa
ext
pam
pag
glk
eng
amh
war
ron
udm
lin
min
pag
che
nds-nl
hbs
lug
swe
asm
ava
rue
sin
myv
gla
swa
fra
ext
lim
cbk
kat
tat
bul
cos
sgs
lug
deu
wln
nld
nno
bho
nav
que
nrm
mri
bre
pam
dan
asm
myv
ceb
eng
snd
hak
scn
div
ita
zea
frp
tyv
hye
fur
tat
cor
kaz
aze
gle
fur
bho
tat
fin
ang
mdf
tsn
ibo
ang
cat
tat
udm
cor
kat
orm
rus
tha
glv
new
guj
hun
fry
ina
mlt
ast
ckb
bar
lit
lmo
dty
bxr
egl
cbk
roh
hak
deu
pcd
ava
lrc
mal
isl
lit
spa
roa-tara
vie
wln
udm
est
ton
kom
slv
wln
lrc
fra
mkd
war
roa-tara
ile
dty
olo
hbs
srn
urd
sin
new
lad
ina
ast
new
asm
vie
udm
khm
spa
eng
fin
new
hin
udm
nso
ind
arg
kan
pam
bod
aze
ava
map-bms
hye
lao
wln
cos
mkd
scn
nep
pan
bho
pam
aze
new
khm
jpn
mwl
xmf
grn
koi
ang
jbo
jbo
bel
nav
spa
mdf
guj
ara
sgs
pan
mhr
aym
dan
bul
min
deu
jav
ton
frp
lat
glv
hat
tet
mon
kin
que
lat
frp
koi
roh
rup
ksh
bel
fry
bho
pag
swe
csb
fry
ina
hin
nap
bod
ceb
nob
gla
glg
gla
nds
san
cor
pcd
csb
pus
aym
san
vls
ast
pdc
zea
cat
orm
ina
mwl
pdc
lad
ext
srp
glv
lug
cdo
lrc
swa
nds-nl
sme
pcd
arg
map-bms
bel
ltg
oci
bho
cym
pnb
mlg
ton
tat
bar
tel
hak
mon
pam
lat
xmf
tcy
gla
wln
hye
srd
sqi
ast
pdc
oci
ksh
mar
khm
dan
mal
fao
nan
uig
scn
kaz
map-bms
swa
lug
ang
bar
mlt
cym
be-tarask
snd
wln
bul
ina
eus
olo
epo
vie
ibo
srp
tgl
div
hin
ang
map-bms
lav
vep
nds-nl
pdc
cos
yid
mdf
nds-nl
orm
srd
lit
ind
frp
ace
srd
glv
ori
orm
hbs
hif
kor
msa
hrv
vie
tcy
pnb
wln
ina
gle
yid
lug
eng
mhr
kor
nds
slk
hun
hsb
ace
tcy
pap
fra
nds
por
glg
nap
lim
mar
est
ace
dty
dty
urd
lin
nrm
hrv
lao
urd
isl
kbd
mkd
ina
kbd
cos
ace
hsb
mal
nap
hat
ckb
aym
vie
kor
xho
sna
scn
gla
ces
slk
eng
cor
ast
por
spa
bcl
bel
bod
ibo
lao
kbd
ron
ext
ibo
kin
mwl
afr
cos
mar
ara
cor
nob
fas
hye
csb
crh
hrv
nds
oci
ukr
lrc
orm
hin
srn
urd
afr
ext
amh
slk
dan
snd
bel
afr
cos
pol
bxr
tsn
bpy
ces
hin
hbs
pam
hat
orm
ibo
scn
fas
pol
rue
jbo
bel
lmo
bul
sgs
nav
nds
nap
xho
ext
kat
nds-nl
nep
vls
mya
mwl
oci
guj
ukr
msa
guj
mlg
kan
zea
bar
gla
pdc
bul
xmf
ksh
tcy
ton
map-bms
mwl
msa
ang
lat
orm
nav
nds
che
cor
mri
lim
deu
pfl
kin
fur
srn
glg
xho
ckb
eng
mya
nds-nl
slv
new
ang
fry
gla
tur
fur
rue
tgl
war
war
ace
cbk
zea
guj
ori
mdf
asm
crh
myv
pus
bcl
sco
vie
ton
xho
dty
lmo
bpy
ksh
lrc
ceb
ang
sco
msa
egl
mai
dty
bxr
asm
crh
nno
spa
ibo
srd
nep
swe
roa-tara
hak
vls
bho
nso
roa-tara
mya
hin
cat
dty
hbs
pnb
mhr
tyv
vep
afr
ell
nrm
war
eus
ang
mlg
gla
bcl
lug
frp
scn
ckb
crh
arg
slv
que
nno
ukr
kaz
ceb
lad
ksh
bpy
arg
eus
slv
vie
ina
lao
afr
kbd
snd
glk
tcy
hat
epo
tgl
srd
tel
pdc
vls
als
dsb
olo
san
glg
ksh
ukr
hin
lin
kom
be-tarask
epo
ori
mhr
kin
pus
nan
pus
ceb
hbs
vls
por
bcl
fry
bxr
rue
pcd
eus
nav
kat
gle
stq
div
nld
hak
asm
nap
srd
mar
myv
nav
tcy
mar
lez
tet
grn
war
bar
slv
myv
lrc
srn
ast
nso
swa
srd
xmf
hat
lad
vie
nav
ile
isl
glg
fin
ace
dsb
cor
sgs
olo
fur
sna
sna
fry
hbs
ina
slk
egl
cdo
asm
lrc
hin
pam
zea
stq
lat
nrm
afr
ind
bel
fas
mkd
oci
swe
ces
lez
lat
oci
tsn
tel
mdf
msa
srn
egl
hsb
yid
khm
lav
als
ron
khm
ltg
egl
tel
srp
pcd
pnb
nob
asm
swe
tyv
cat
new
lim
lin
kaz
tat
ltg
tat
ell
bjn
eng
min
ile
roh
nld
war
lim
tcy
swa
lat
sme
yid
nno
hif
fry
crh
map-bms
rue
tcy
fra
srp
bho
cdo
aym
ile
hye
ava
kin
tsn
swe
kom
vie
pdc
pdc
lim
mon
vep
hin
ltg
udm
pam
hrv
mar
mal
sme
lim
pnb
dan
bho
orm
ltg
swa
cor
gle
map-bms
cor
tet
csb
krc
sgs
ori
slv
mar
mon
oci
ita
nav
tel
mlg
be-tarask
xho
ibo
bul
yid
bjn
myv
kom
mar
olo
pcd
bpy
bar
tcy
csb
orm
lin
ast
eus
war
pap
srn
wln
vep
pap
glg
vie
rup
roh
ckb
mwl
ile
div
ava
bxr
hsb
oss
dan
ind
nep
pdc
dsb
kom
ile
krc
amh
aze
fin
pap
bcl
pap
lav
bjn
tur
glv
uig
lat
ava
lrc
dty
bpy
cor
div
lin
por
msa
msa
mri
kaz
msa
olo
roh
lit
tel
lit
gle
kbd
pam
tsn
vie
nep
nep
fra
khm
nan
als
tsn
rup
ori
tha
tha
ron
san
dan
aze
hrv
myv
nep
oss
dty
glk
war
min
wln
kat
tur
pap
san
kin
sin
ltg
por
hsb
pol
xho
wln
lug
orm
tet
war
fin
roa-tara
jbo
glk
que
nan
fry
nav
che
pdc
kin
bre
vol
hin
hif
srp
pus
olo
vie
gag
nob
guj
nob
krc
uig
tam
pnb
cat
vie
ina
frp
amh
myv
mri
srn
cos
lav
tgl
kbd
che
pam
tcy
tha
khm
swa
rus
vie
new
sqi
glk
kor
bel
ton
nno
lrc
new
nld
bel
mal
tha
fry
tgl
gle
hrv
ang
dan
kaz
lat
ori
mdf
san
slk
gag
stq
amh
pcd
sna
pam
glv
lit
fur
oci
nds
pag
fra
tur
srd
hsb
fao
ckb
nan
new
sna
yid
hin
hye
nno
pag
als
fra
afr
hun
hat
lav
ltg
tat
tha
ltg
pdc
mkd
myv
ell
nds-nl
hbs
orm
hrv
ksh
pam
ukr
zea
cat
ckb
bre
hrv
ang
mlt
cat
stq
pap
glg
nap
sme
nld
mri
udm
eng
sgs
fra
ast
cym
snd
nep
eus
bho
ina
srp
ibo
nob
vol
kbd
frp
hun
gle
fra
hsb
orm
gle
che
bjn
yid
kin
urd
tet
nso
ell
eng
lim
jav
kan
mri
ibo
gle
ibo
rue
ile
pnb
gle
kom
gag
urd
orm
frp
tcy
nld
pdc
mlg
bcl
dty
ext
als
mal
swe
cym
nob
hun
ibo
srd
min
ltg
isl
mri
tam
ara
xmf
oci
pap
lug
epo
fas
ces
nso
nan
nav
be-tarask
ltg
csb
ast
lin
tyv
msa
nso
pcd
lrc
fin
hin
vls
bjn
uig
stq
spa
cdo
bel
kbd
jpn
arg
lao
tet
ext
tsn
pcd
map-bms
hak
ara
lrc
lad
guj
aze
ckb
rue
nno
new
bpy
lin
ori
tha
pfl
tam
tsn
glg
oci
pfl
que
ukr
fra
ext
ast
cat
mal
nep
lad
roh
cat
glk
bel
map-bms
nep
bar
ksh
nds-nl
bjn
arg
dty
swa
jav
bpy
pfl
srn
nno
tet
ace
sna
mya
ori
csb
tcy
lmo
glg
spa
lao
ava
ibo
sqi
stq
nav
oci
urd
gla
aze
nrm
khm
lez
vls
war
tet
vie
mar
grn
lad
mri
spa
tsn
nob
oss
hin
div
zea
ukr
tsn
ltg
spa
mar
gla
msa
kom
gle
nap
ron
nep
roh
koi
ukr
glk
tgl
vls
pag
pan
hin
roh
ukr
ton
hrv
fas
fur
sgs
vls
est
tet
hun
bcl
swe
lrc
spa
ind
mal
pol
nrm
mlt
che
pfl
afr
swa
srn
map-bms
snd
fas
sgs
che
che
tet
new
bod
lat
vls
xho
pdc
mlg
est
tat
cdo
pol
ckb
khm
srp
msa
fas
tcy
nrm
lez
new
min
vie
pnb
div
eus
srd
sme
hsb
tur
nep
kat
myv
hin
lat
hrv
grn
pnb
glg
srd
ace
sme
lat
bjn
ind
scn
aym
rus
ina
map-bms
cym
glg
als
lit
hsb
dty
dan
kat
bul
gag
hye
cos
bod
vep
cbk
swa
arg
swe
mlg
fao
lat
gla
hun
koi
stq
tgl
nob
ori
bod
cos
tgl
ile
nan
ksh
lrc
fra
isl
dan
hye
guj
kom
gag
bar
kin
pol
ind
ara
ori
srp
tha
mhr
ibo
kom
nld
fra
lrc
lez
ton
udm
tel
kat
lao
glv
cat
tel
swe
roa-tara
grn
gle
lin
pol
olo
yid
bxr
gla
nso
srn
gag
kor
ibo
sqi
tcy
ast
epo
lrc
fry
est
olo
ukr
pap
scn
cdo
oci
bod
tam
ext
gla
oci
eus
cbk
aze
amh
dsb
tet
new
cdo
vol
div
kan
zea
mai
new
pap
pam
hak
pcd
ukr
kan
nep
csb
lim
scn
lim
ita
stq
map-bms
fry
ton
sco
als
vls
urd
tel
pam
kor
ava
oci
hin
snd
ceb
tha
nds-nl
ksh
egl
tyv
new
nob
srp
pag
fra
fra
lim
kbd
lmo
hif
pcd
eus
afr
ltg
ori
gla
sgs
jpn
mar
nds-nl
be-tarask
bxr
aze
hye
nob
roh
lao
dty
swe
frp
nds-nl
xho
kbd
mlg
lin
pfl
vie
lav
egl
kom
bre
guj
stq
vep
be-tarask
ita
mal
pfl
cym
pdc
hbs
sna
myv
jpn
scn
ibo
kan
dsb
pdc
nno
glv
egl
kbd
bod
hbs
wln
xmf
kin
udm
hif
war
tcy
ast
lez
kan
roh
lmo
nep
fry
nap
cat
cor
vol
isl
kom
fry
ina
lug
sna
glk
vie
nep
nds
bpy
grn
jav
tha
epo
mkd
deu
sgs
fin
min
koi
nds-nl
sna
oci
msa
bxr
asm
lez
vol
krc
gle
msa
aze
tam
ori
sin
eng
ksh
glg
tet
ina
est
afr
urd
ton
myv
gag
nob
rue
xmf
ava
cos
pam
vls
roh
new
koi
tur
jbo
tsn
tha
mri
ell
ell
kor
kom
sgs
ina
guj
hin
tcy
kan
ces
tsn
jpn
koi
asm
asm
vie
ckb
urd
sqi
amh
mlg
por
mai
kin
lez
guj
lug
dsb
pdc
glv
tel
vie
hbs
cat
tet
wln
fao
be-tarask
srd
lug
afr
sna
mri
slv
pam
ksh
wln
fry
rup
csb
ava
fao
be-tarask
tyv
rus
tat
ind
sna
mlt
lmo
als
ibo
tel
csb
roa-tara
fao
ext
frp
cdo
lug
olo
crh
cor
ita
mri
ces
sco
lrc
roa-tara
xmf
cor
mlt
hin
tyv
lug
vie
vep
cdo
tel
bel
bcl
mal
stq
war
nld
gla
tam
mdf
mai
dsb
nno
amh
cat
jav
ckb
swe
ast
ckb
bxr
mdf
aym
wln
hat
mwl
jpn
pnb
crh
nan
roa-tara
csb
tgl
sco
fas
hat
ang
ori
mhr
srn
deu
gle
cos
bjn
egl
ang
rus
nob
cdo
srn
sqi
bxr
be-tarask
hsb
fry
ton
lez
eng
pag
bul
nap
aze
rup
ara
tat
cor
eng
epo
fur
csb
ltg
guj
rup
lrc
arg
bod
eus
oss
wln
che
nld
lim
kan
dty
vls
myv
koi
als
tcy
lit
sgs
dan
hrv
rup
nld
roa-tara
ara
nob
que
est
nso
che
lin
mkd
sco
csb
ind
nso
eng
mar
gle
amh
vie
mhr
deu
fur
pan
lug
ang
epo
cym
srn
nld
pnb
xmf
amh
srp
tet
nno
pam
mdf
bod
fin
hye
tsn
hun
bcl
ind
sin
mya
mar
guj
koi
guj
tsn
als
ile
lin
lad
nep
swe
afr
jbo
swe
dty
mkd
jav
dsb
pap
tam
nob
pdc
pam
gle
lmo
pfl
mon
cor
eus
nap
nav
ksh
ile
fin
hat
que
krc
yid
jbo
war
que
pag
pcd
nav
vol
orm
ast
que
crh
kaz
yid
krc
kan
new
ind
cat
lav
ksh
mri
pus
pus
xmf
lin
mai
xmf
glk
swe
roa-tara
uig
pap
srn
glv
tsn
che
stq
mai
xho
wln
fur
ina
swe
kaz
cdo
myv
div
lug
pag
nan
dsb
mkd
hun
nso
mon
tyv
bjn
spa
nds-nl
ace
bar
wln
pan
por
tur
cbk
spa
que
mon
nan
nep
map-bms
ind
ron
bcl
myv
nds
tyv
nso
mai
fin
mlt
bcl
ibo
ron
ara
lav
orm
sin
que
urd
kat
oss
tsn
olo
kbd
mal
sco
que
spa
lrc
kin
kaz
hun
csb
xho
sqi
sin
ori
glk
rus
san
roh
nob
bjn
hat
bcl
pam
fao
mon
cat
ces
bar
bul
bpy
lad
arg
map-bms
mwl
nan
olo
tat
vep
hye
swe
mai
myv
glk
ara
csb
ibo
ara
cor
ext
mal
gag
amh
ksh
csb
tet
udm
roa-tara
vls
hin
ton
swe
fin
ckb
lmo
asm
lez
kor
mya
kat
vep
ksh
snd
als
jav
roh
mal
fas
ksh
lrc
roh
ext
eus
cym
cos
hif
wln
slv
sqi
jbo
mar
tgl
pam
myv
msa
pus
snd
pcd
ron
ell
jav
msa
tel
nep
swe
hye
uig
tet
eus
ron
ltg
crh
hin
vls
est
nno
jbo
arg
kbd
epo
tyv
mdf
koi
tat
amh
tam
msa
khm
pol
cbk
spa
mlt
tha
jav
kin
hun
mon
grn
yid
ast
ksh
ita
lmo
tet
nrm
tur
udm
pol
nep
tgl
hat
ang
swe
hin
bjn
hin
fas
hat
gle
sco
roa-tara
ast
bcl
bpy
cat
gle
tha
roa-tara
xho
cdo
koi
nrm
frp
pam
ltg
pag
new
olo
tel
tet
lmo
kat
zea
sna
kbd
ell
che
nrm
msa
glv
mri
pcd
oss
dsb
bel
nrm
div
hak
bar
csb
bpy
ile
tet
ace
rup
nso
ibo
mri
min
ita
tcy
ava
slv
cym
tgl
aym
jpn
arg
glv
urd
glv
lmo
kat
pan
vep
sin
tcy
pag
cos
slk
bar
ina
mal
roh
vep
vls
pfl
deu
pan
aym
msa
mwl
hun
hsb
slk
grn
koi
xmf
ext
pag
sna
mya
bjn
bre
krc
ita
srd
mhr
jbo
nso
aym
kat
vls
bho
koi
kbd
nds
tgl
srd
rup
pus
slk
oss
nld
rup
gle
hye
cos
mlg
tam
san
jav
nno
mwl
ell
div
nld
egl
nan
grn
kor
san
lug
be-tarask
ron
mai
lug
pfl
slk
cat
ksh
div
sqi
tsn
srd
sgs
xmf
jav
nds
ibo
aym
div
oci
cym
por
cym
bar
hin
oss
nso
yid
ita
bho
pcd
dsb
kom
lrc
mri
vep
sqi
kin
lin
tur
afr
ind
isl
be-tarask
vep
mhr
slv
grn
sqi
rup
mal
cdo
frp
wln
bar
ksh
war
nep
cat
vls
cbk
sme
pol
rue
bre
pcd
roa-tara
ile
sco
mri
asm
pag
crh
ara
glk
rup
pfl
rue
lad
dan
gag
srp
oci
epo
nno
olo
asm
pam
eng
kom
pfl
dan
hin
bxr
spa
mwl
ton
csb
tel
lim
asm
ibo
bel
tet
sna
roa-tara
glv
cdo
olo
glk
mal
lat
mal
bul
lez
bjn
new
lim
olo
kom
pam
ace
lim
bjn
khm
tyv
tam
nav
kbd
khm
fur
crh
mai
ita
fao
crh
pus
rus
san
mon
msa
yid
csb
mdf
tha
wln
map-bms
bho
lim
bxr
bod
pnb
slv
vls
epo
pam
tgl
khm
als
jav
rus
pnb
lao
lug
crh
lav
kan
rus
snd
oci
tel
dsb
vls
pam
srd
nso
hif
jav
fao
lin
lug
tyv
vol
hun
pnb
sme
nds-nl
hun
amh
wln
fur
koi
fao
kin
cbk
udm
jbo
oss
guj
ceb
pfl
lao
ces
krc
dty
stq
kom
ang
que
mwl
kbd
aze
sqi
xho
lmo
ksh
lit
ckb
kom
cdo
dty
sqi
mal
swa
oci
tel
kbd
min
snd
ron
orm
ron
bjn
pcd
tsn
mar
pcd
map-bms
nap
krc
jpn
fur
oss
kin
tha
orm
lin
hbs
ori
crh
lad
fra
bul
jpn
cat
glk
deu
tcy
mhr
ton
san
swa
nav
scn
nan
bjn
ita
tyv
be-tarask
cdo
lad
che
pol
nso
min
ltg
fin
srn
mwl
xmf
slv
lin
dsb
nds
min
ace
cym
zea
xho
snd
csb
ace
san
ina
fao
oci
isl
ile
egl
eus
roa-tara
new
mal
kor
sme
pfl
nds-nl
urd
lim
ceb
guj
mri
ell
pfl
myv
xmf
fra
vol
san
dan
kat
tgl
tel
hbs
bre
cym
swe
nds
eus
pnb
lao
nld
swe
mal
wln
kbd
lim
hat
ita
gag
cdo
lrc
swa
war
zea
bod
por
khm
war
swa
ile
egl
uig
ron
hsb
yid
ltg
koi
cym
rue
lug
pfl
deu
scn
epo
lug
ina
bcl
bar
tet
yid
urd
bho
tcy
bre
cos
crh
lao
cat
hif
pdc
hsb
fur
ind
kan
pol
sme
roa-tara
epo
als
fry
ita
mkd
ckb
ckb
map-bms
sme
ksh
fas
glv
dsb
fry
oss
stq
que
lin
kbd
swa
arg
grn
hun
xmf
eus
myv
vep
glg
hun
arg
oci
csb
nno
urd
lad
glg
stq
ron
pdc
min
ton
dty
gag
slv
kaz
sna
tel
nds-nl
ext
hrv
mar
als
kbd
nan
slv
fas
nap
ace
nav
xmf
pnb
jpn
roh
lin
pap
lrc
sgs
koi
krc
vie
pnb
min
pap
pap
pap
sin
fur
hbs
mar
kom
srp
nld
ksh
afr
eng
hbs
eus
hin
map-bms
sin
kor
vol
div
nld
mwl
ind
slv
eng
war
orm
srp
sme
sco
tcy
ces
hin
afr
krc
olo
ita
jbo
fao
tsn
arg
min
olo
ext
nld
hak
lao
amh
tgl
lat
csb
bho
ckb
mdf
urd
que
hat
olo
bod
ceb
war
koi
mar
gla
fin
tgl
jbo
kan
cym
nep
udm
roa-tara
nob
hat
mya
mwl
ast
new
ron
afr
vep
nld
sin
lin
fin
ton
mar
lav
kan
ina
olo
mdf
scn
khm
epo
est
nds-nl
slv
bre
fao
ina
lrc
lit
dsb
ron
lao
nld
que
tur
pam
slk
ltg
sgs
vep
wln
gag
nno
ile
mkd
aze
mhr
lin
fra
ita
zea
div
cdo
kbd
sme
mlt
vls
dan
oss
cos
tur
fin
vie
lim
kom
mhr
bcl
roh
tcy
hbs
lez
nso
pfl
mar
grn
nan
orm
mai
mlt
hbs
ksh
ile
olo
kan
bcl
bel
kat
mhr
pag
est
crh
pdc
nso
fur
ava
scn
sgs
hat
bpy
bpy
ukr
eng
ibo
ron
pag
orm
que
pam
srn
mar
rue
sco
oci
tam
srn
hsb
ell
swa
nep
lav
kat
als
map-bms
fao
dan
ori
jbo
ace
pnb
msa
aym
fry
pag
mwl
ang
mhr
fra
kbd
pnb
jbo
est
ron
hrv
tet
msa
slk
war
lug
glg
pan
ckb
por
pcd
lrc
cym
fin
tha
asm
tha
kom
slk
ace
amh
bxr
epo
pcd
yid
kat
glv
pnb
nap
che
vep
kan
kor
que
lrc
lug
cat
vie
srd
glk
hin
tet
tel
nso
lit
lit
glk
bar
kat
san
jpn
kaz
mlg
mri
egl
fao
kom
san
olo
tcy
frp
gle
scn
hak
sme
ces
xmf
sna
oci
oss
khm
bpy
bar
mlt
uig
swa
udm
bjn
tha
kan
san
gle
mlg
lad
guj
yid
myv
pfl
ita
cdo
ron
mwl
bod
msa
mdf
oci
isl
ltg
map-bms
amh
min
nld
lin
lat
mai
hsb
yid
hun
cor
mkd
fur
kor
ceb
be-tarask
tgl
snd
ksh
nds-nl
pus
kat
lit
san
jav
grn
hrv
roa-tara
srd
bre
sna
bul
nds
asm
est
xho
sqi
pnb
ksh
ell
pam
kaz
myv
hbs
ceb
pap
war
uig
lug
stq
cat
amh
mkd
zea
ell
ita
mri
swe
snd
csb
ori
be-tarask
bpy
vep
hak
ron
vie
ksh
ces
als
dty
ell
mon
myv
koi
dan
glg
new
bod
eng
slk
tsn
spa
mri
mar
nrm
pag
ast
kan
kom
hbs
snd
sin
pol
nob
fas
tet
sqi
ina
nob
ina
fin
ext
ell
mai
ltg
hye
lad
ile
yid
lav
koi
swa
ron
kat
tet
kan
jpn
pol
deu
cor
nav
mlt
sco
tet
vep
lin
afr
scn
lat
mhr
hak
gla
hun
mdf
ron
que
isl
ell
pus
pap
tyv
tcy
dsb
rus
mkd
ori
fao
hun
uig
rue
afr
hin
cbk
new
bul
ava
ell
fas
lat
khm
spa
vol
mai
mya
hsb
lin
deu
ind
nrm
ava
ace
hin
tam
map-bms
kbd
cym
nld
lat
fra
pcd
bho
xho
deu
dsb
sna
fra
guj
lrc
dty
lat
cor
sgs
mdf
ckb
kan
ceb
nan
sin
frp
mon
deu
rue
ind
dty
ace
mlg
zea
amh
hak
lav
jpn
mdf
mwl
nap
hak
pam
pol
lug
ron
eus
sgs
orm
lug
tam
gle
dan
orm
fas
be-tarask
snd
deu
glv
ang
bar
eng
jav
kaz
kom
deu
fra
gle
ava
hrv
sin
als
bar
ell
stq
nan
cos
xho
oci
glv
lrc
aym
tur
gag
snd
que
tcy
ext
ile
ind
olo
jav
fao
che
che
glg
est
pnb
lrc
dan
sqi
frp
div
ceb
lrc
nep
glv
lao
koi
tgl
ile
amh
ceb
deu
eng
fry
pag
pam
ibo
spa
swa
dsb
tam
glv
hak
hin
bho
san
arg
ukr
glv
ceb
isl
kin
xho
nds
pol
ksh
que
bpy
ibo
roh
hun
tgl
tur
nep
tat
bcl
kat
tha
bod
nob
cat
tgl
hif
frp
bod
deu
nso
cym
kaz
oss
tel
eng
cym
guj
tgl
ceb
pol
ckb
fry
lug
slv
tam
spa
nap
afr
pfl
khm
que
ckb
hrv
slk
jbo
mya
bcl
fry
krc
pcd
cdo
xho
ile
mdf
ext
cos
gag
lao
lit
mon
ori
kan
vep
roa-tara
gla
gag
nep
cor
kat
fin
che
pam
olo
hye
spa
pap
hat
jav
ces
ace
hat
sqi
roa-tara
new
krc
lin
hin
ukr
min
pus
nob
mri
stq
kbd
xmf
nep
srn
mri
sin
epo
uig
jbo
lit
por
tam
lim
sqi
tyv
jav
jpn
crh
mlg
urd
nds-nl
gla
kor
bar
pus
als
ibo
swe
yid
xmf
dty
ita
nds-nl
be-tarask
swe
epo
por
mal
roa-tara
nep
gag
glk
pam
rup
rup
jbo
mlg
ita
pus
cos
deu
san
lrc
gle
ina
ori
lao
dty
tat
bel
ava
arg
mdf
por
ltg
ceb
bcl
jav
che
nso
nap
guj
pcd
ang
lat
isl
srp
mri
urd
kan
asm
lao
che
pap
pfl
tyv
nob
scn
lav
nob
jbo
sna
pdc
kom
fur
rup
mkd
kan
pfl
fry
tyv
bxr
ast
myv
nrm
tet
nav
vls
fin
kan
pap
khm
fra
khm
bcl
lin
koi
tat
war
wln
slk
lad
min
bul
ksh
oci
glv
olo
gla
frp
xho
yid
ckb
cos
oss
rus
bxr
lad
tyv
pfl
als
tcy
swe
deu
vep
cbk
ind
mal
rue
be-tarask
cor
tcy
fin
glk
srp
gle
por
sgs
cym
bod
hye
vie
amh
asm
pag
ceb
hak
sin
ina
xho
ita
sin
khm
tyv
ibo
min
udm
min
rup
ori
asm
tet
hif
srp
che
yid
tet
tur
pag
jav
sin
por
fra
map-bms
olo
csb
sgs
vol
roh
vol
kat
glk
csb
khm
sna
sin
arg
deu
mal
ell
dty
afr
ext
vie
mal
kbd
epo
dty
orm
kat
mon
ile
nrm
kan
ukr
nep
mar
rue
gle
hbs
glv
fra
lin
bar
ang
bre
hif
udm
aze
hsb
be-tarask
mai
mlt
ita
pag
spa
ina
csb
lrc
lug
hsb
uig
lug
roa-tara
asm
fra
be-tarask
olo
swa
hrv
ext
hbs
myv
vol
ang
be-tarask
bpy
glk
bul
tsn
tur
fin
tcy
kaz
frp
csb
nso
orm
srd
lin
hat
min
nno
nds-nl
est
hun
mai
mai
tgl
pfl
koi
swa
bjn
scn
koi
ile
pam
hat
srn
bjn
udm
ext
pag
mdf
krc
sco
bre
est
amh
kaz
ksh
mlg
bpy
nso
lmo
oci
vep
hak
por
gag
ind
lad
hak
krc
sqi
frp
mri
mlt
mlt
scn
eng
pag
ckb
orm
mdf
mlt
mdf
mar
jbo
est
nav
yid
mya
ace
ind
ara
ina
ckb
bul
cym
fas
tsn
fur
bel
csb
ksh
mhr
ltg
cos
bul
srp
tcy
orm
ext
nds
kin
hye
be-tarask
lav
hbs
bpy
eus
scn
rue
pnb
ext
pan
mdf
nld
ind
pan
srp
ton
wln
nso
isl
rue
hye
epo
glk
kin
mdf
aze
bjn
msa
pfl
srn
nds-nl
snd
div
che
kbd
sna
ile
gla
glg
ckb
wln
be-tarask
swa
mwl
zea
bel
kat
ceb
hak
pol
ukr
pdc
hif
tur
slv
arg
hun
pus
isl
ell
lav
ang
bul
asm
epo
war
pnb
new
mlt
sco
pam
tyv
ibo
ext
sme
ava
swe
nld
ina
bre
ibo
rue
pol
bod
bcl
rus
hak
new
asm
deu
pfl
hye
ces
pnb
nep
mwl
slk
tsn
slv
bul
kat
ang
lug
mdf
uig
ukr
nap
glv
sna
afr
lmo
lez
olo
rup
san
csb
fas
jav
sqi
mwl
ksh
rue
koi
mlt
lez
sme
gla
mai
olo
aze
cor
ces
kat
sme
fao
cdo
fao
nan
san
mhr
nds
guj
roh
mlg
san
vep
mhr
ext
lad
lad
bul
eus
cor
san
uig
div
srn
oci
fry
jpn
lit
aym
be-tarask
dan
fao
roa-tara
dan
cym
mya
tha
nso
lim
swa
lat
hrv
cbk
lmo
cor
nds-nl
ces
aze
nob
bpy
tet
mwl
lmo
gag
guj
cat
mdf
spa
kin
guj
pcd
glk
cdo
ces
snd
lao
ltg
bul
eng
eng
sgs
sgs
sco
pol
rup
nrm
pol
roh
jav
jbo
guj
jav
div
uig
jpn
vol
nap
mya
san
bul
gag
nrm
kor
gag
min
rus
nds-nl
nep
new
msa
pnb
ast
cor
nob
mri
lav
oci
hsb
krc
mdf
udm
rus
dty
eus
nso
bpy
lim
ron
sna
dan
xho
rup
urd
snd
hbs
por
tam
msa
wln
bjn
war
tsn
asm
hif
ita
pnb
eng
bel
ast
guj
uig
nld
hsb
tet
deu
fin
rus
est
tur
gla
urd
bxr
srn
ori
rus
csb
slk
krc
tet
tyv
gag
ell
als
ang
fas
pap
isl
ces
gle
dsb
mwl
est
isl
cdo
egl
sgs
mwl
bul
ckb
nrm
bul
tgl
nld
new
roa-tara
nep
lao
amh
dsb
tsn
dsb
glk
div
yid
nrm
ita
jpn
lin
udm
urd
olo
guj
fas
glg
ile
kom
bho
lrc
ina
roh
mal
hbs
bar
bar
bul
pnb
isl
frp
ang
glv
jav
olo
pnb
sqi
rue
ksh
gla
sin
ava
tet
eus
mar
gle
mlg
san
mlt
div
mlt
lad
lez
div
tet
bod
hrv
bul
bod
amh
afr
kaz
ukr
lao
spa
pag
nap
ckb
isl
gla
che
ukr
tyv
ind
zea
swe
bxr
pfl
ita
jav
tet
ina
glv
nds
mdf
nob
tet
mkd
swe
bpy
mar
eng
koi
bod
cbk
urd
cos
hrv
ang
san
ast
lat
myv
udm
kbd
bho
mkd
nrm
pol
que
nds-nl
mar
afr
nds-nl
eng
bcl
nld
crh
nds-nl
pus
pag
msa
ibo
wln
nan
hye
lao
cym
urd
map-bms
oss
frp
san
glv
ton
nno
ast
pag
roh
oci
stq
bjn
afr
swa
guj
dsb
dan
mdf
egl
lav
tur
dan
xmf
dty
nds
sin
hye
bel
lim
lez
kat
srn
jpn
mri
pcd
est
slk
pan
bar
pam
ext
dan
nap
bel
ile
pag
csb
map-bms
tgl
als
aze
lit
lez
ind
mar
ces
tet
fra
ton
stq
mal
ind
lmo
sqi
als
bul
lin
san
hsb
ton
fur
slk
nds
ukr
rus
tha
tsn
fra
uig
min
ori
ukr
grn
mon
div
tsn
krc
tat
lat
csb
isl
cym
ind
sco
hak
dty
gle
nep
xmf
tcy
tcy
egl
kan
tat
rup
pap
hbs
hsb
lrc
lad
bar
ind
bjn
snd
oci
sco
ron
hsb
que
vie
ava
msa
bar
be-tarask
urd
hat
als
amh
pnb
rue
ceb
orm
nap
lrc
roh
ang
zea
pus
srn
ind
yid
be-tarask
lit
nob
bel
lmo
epo
pdc
tet
rus
ltg
guj
nrm
cos
gag
pus
nds
jpn
war
lug
sin
glg
tat
cbk
stq
ron
sco
crh
pnb
fao
ang
frp
hak
cor
tsn
olo
crh
che
pfl
ang
est
fry
bel
nap
vie
hrv
jpn
tgl
map-bms
ind
ava
div
nrm
jpn
kan
kaz
nep
pam
ell
mlg
be-tarask
kaz
bjn
pcd
tyv
hif
eng
map-bms
ara
myv
mwl
ibo
kaz
lug
tat
new
tgl
lat
hin
pcd
lav
pnb
roa-tara
hin
udm
guj
hye
srp
bho
ext
pam
kom
srd
ile
kin
khm
kom
xho
nrm
swa
kin
sco
kaz
mar
srn
pdc
bel
hif
jpn
ara
vie
roh
wln
arg
pam
ton
kin
mar
snd
bel
nno
tur
nav
swa
tcy
hsb
mlg
ell
dty
arg
cor
pcd
eng
kaz
kan
oss
hat
uig
lim
bel
kan
lug
jbo
bul
lit
srn
dsb
kat
ces
asm
udm
tel
rue
eus
jav
rup
sco
nld
msa
bho
lim
guj
new
koi
tyv
lug
tel
slv
tgl
snd
nds
war
stq
jpn
tha
pdc
mal
min
lim
jpn
scn
vol
epo
tsn
cdo
rus
ara
ang
aym
oci
mlt
fry
swe
hye
gla
ita
nso
tyv
cym
dsb
stq
spa
fao
dty
ces
mon
ast
bar
kaz
roa-tara
lat
tet
sin
bho
tsn
ton
sco
ltg
vep
srp
egl
mal
kor
ava
sna
jav
arg
fao
glg
epo
sgs
pap
nav
kom
pol
mon
ibo
pus
gla
tgl
mon
egl
pag
hye
pnb
crh
dsb
tcy
ile
bod
egl
pan
jav
frp
hrv
slv
snd
snd
nep
sna
sin
ara
mya
est
lmo
ita
hrv
aze
sco
mon
cat
ava
wln
dty
mar
rue
oci
lat
cat
pfl
tur
srp
kbd
wln
sgs
frp
vol
udm
scn
tha
bar
tha
hin
kan
mya
cym
aze
map-bms
div
nob
uig
tgl
hin
deu
map-bms
bod
hbs
fas
olo
crh
bre
arg
koi
aym
lao
srp
war
vie
roa-tara
vls
orm
ast
bcl
che
isl
ukr
crh
swe
hat
nld
zea
bre
msa
kor
ksh
mlt
mwl
kor
pam
grn
scn
kin
pan
epo
mwl
mar
mri
tel
nso
ron
sco
crh
frp
pol
hye
ina
fra
hrv
be-tarask
pag
pag
scn
ind
mar
mar
tsn
wln
asm
vep
bjn
mlt
cbk
bxr
nno
bre
ckb
sqi
epo
nld
glv
nno
tat
roa-tara
kom
kaz
sme
ckb
epo
ava
vol
bpy
ind
new
be-tarask
grn
ell
cor
pap
roa-tara
scn
sqi
hrv
kbd
pnb
lrc
ckb
slk
ava
slk
pcd
vls
min
san
oss
cdo
nap
lrc
stq
bre
pnb
min
mar
bul
lug
lao
lim
tha
ava
bxr
pam
jbo
pan
tat
hun
kin
lat
ukr
sme
glg
est
mal
mkd
ksh
hat
kor
nds-nl
ksh
vol
ckb
bho
rue
zea
mri
tam
mlt
lin
nob
epo
mri
nep
guj
aze
nav
tha
tyv
lit
isl
oci
tcy
fas
amh
min
hat
eus
tet
cbk
zea
ind
tur
nno
nav
sco
ell
lin
ckb
nrm
tam
slk
aym
srd
lim
mwl
vls
ast
oci
ukr
swe
mkd
pan
lav
ell
ita
pdc
hsb
stq
mwl
gag
bxr
bjn
kbd
bcl
bpy
bho
pam
oci
ita
lim
mar
mkd
tcy
sme
kaz
sme
ara
arg
cos
rup
zea
mlt
jav
cor
csb
xmf
vol
vie
ara
new
rue
mar
pnb
ceb
aze
lmo
kor
dsb
aze
wln
que
epo
urd
ukr
sqi
bod
swa
slk
bod
hsb
hun
mya
ace
pol
nrm
kan
bre
mdf
bpy
spa
oci
slk
ita
mwl
cos
fry
lmo
jbo
kat
udm
srp
eng
jpn
vep
lrc
cos
asm
isl
hin
myv
ckb
urd
fry
dty
lit
fao
ava
kor
ltg
mwl
bar
tha
sqi
hrv
lat
sin
asm
fra
ind
oci
tgl
ibo
bxr
koi
bel
grn
que
nso
eus
nds-nl
hif
kin
stq
nds
hak
glk
rue
lim
khm
sco
lao
hat
dsb
tam
cat
uig
nno
ron
orm
sgs
nld
kat
ibo
pdc
guj
koi
sgs
mhr
sco
gla
map-bms
oss
fas
ckb
san
kan
lat
por
hat
tsn
ita
bpy
bxr
tet
gag
hye
por
nso
hif
lim
fur
stq
che
ukr
hin
epo
jbo
pol
hbs
cbk
nav
tgl
pfl
hsb
est
bel
fra
tyv
fry
bho
rue
ind
nep
glv
ton
war
fur
nso
tha
tyv
glk
vls
jbo
rus
tur
srd
glg
ind
nap
stq
ukr
sna
bcl
arg
fur
glg
zea
fas
war
mkd
vol
olo
bod
bod
spa
amh
mon
sqi
nds-nl
nno
spa
vol
sna
stq
hat
lez
deu
mkd
fry
map-bms
tur
ksh
kat
slv
bho
ita
bpy
eus
nap
nso
fao
eng
pcd
xho
kom
tha
fas
kat
asm
deu
pag
kor
pnb
tyv
aze
tsn
hun
bcl
bjn
rus
kaz
nep
tsn
crh
fry
rup
crh
cdo
tam
vie
nep
que
mya
kat
nno
hun
slv
gag
hin
war
hbs
stq
sqi
bho
sin
kan
crh
tel
csb
yid
yid
tam
min
ara
rue
ori
roh
rup
ron
mlg
lmo
pcd
slv
gag
mhr
sqi
pan
orm
gag
guj
bul
nrm
cos
frp
que
nds
por
bxr
pam
hun
scn
sgs
kaz
uig
kin
pag
epo
hat
map-bms
jbo
lav
xho
srd
fin
jav
ukr
dty
tur
rup
jav
dsb
mar
nob
pnb
war
khm
srn
tha
cos
pol
ckb
jbo
koi
xmf
egl
khm
rup
fur
kaz
kaz
nan
lit
ron
srd
lim
oci
msa
mwl
tcy
msa
khm
tyv
ckb
cym
vol
que
sco
lim
nap
tat
ksh
tel
mhr
hbs
cdo
sqi
ton
eus
myv
zea
mwl
afr
ang
ibo
nrm
aym
nan
fao
fra
lrc
olo
sna
ukr
dsb
swa
ara
udm
bre
gla
bel
cat
hsb
mar
glg
scn
nld
urd
mkd
fas
guj
srp
bjn
nap
glv
sqi
hrv
tet
pdc
guj
bel
pag
nan
tur
ava
lrc
ceb
por
aze
sme
sme
afr
pap
mai
cdo
dty
nep
slv
arg
uig
kor
mai
jbo
nno
tgl
bjn
ace
por
lad
jpn
tgl
eus
snd
csb
dan
sqi
csb
hat
olo
ron
new
pnb
bxr
slk
ind
tat
oss
kom
hrv
lad
fas
hsb
wln
aym
tel
ron
mar
cos
bod
sgs
bpy
mhr
fry
pcd
wln
deu
nds-nl
ind
crh
cor
bul
pam
srn
ckb
tsn
lit
csb
lao
ukr
lim
frp
tyv
epo
sna
ava
cos
aym
ext
sme
roh
sin
tam
hrv
kaz
swa
fra
pnb
fra
bho
ltg
ckb
zea
swa
kbd
pdc
che
pus
bul
pus
nso
srp
swe
ell
ina
bul
hun
war
glg
fra
aym
pnb
por
arg
est
kin
tyv
lug
mlg
tcy
mkd
ceb
mkd
mal
pap
hrv
sco
san
hun
cbk
bre
gla
nds-nl
tur
rue
ell
be-tarask
ext
dsb
kom
nap
koi
ina
hin
grn
mkd
fur
tha
que
ace
cat
swe
tur
hsb
tat
lao
ast
cat
pap
kor
sme
sin
tat
ksh
lav
pag
mon
lin
ori
cor
glg
lmo
roh
epo
frp
vls
lug
lrc
mlg
mlt
fin
tha
ast
swe
glg
sqi
eus
nds-nl
pap
srd
ckb
mlt
tgl
cbk
spa
kor
lat
mar
eus
kat
cym
pap
olo
jpn
kor
gla
bre
kbd
ell
xho
eus
glg
snd
csb
glk
jbo
dsb
bel
ita
als
mar
new
spa
map-bms
nds
slk
pfl
nds-nl
san
ckb
pcd
be-tarask
bjn
nds-nl
sqi
als
koi
lat
lez
cat
nds-nl
snd
spa
mya
orm
pus
pap
pag
gle
fas
stq
eng
mhr
fas
mri
vie
ast
lit
tel
nep
wln
scn
mdf
hye
mlt
kbd
mar
swe
scn
cos
nrm
crh
srn
ast
ltg
hsb
rue
vie
vls
msa
pag
nno
tgl
ile
que
urd
egl
nds-nl
srp
nrm
ast
glg
uig
aze
glk
bho
mai
ksh
pcd
khm
mai
kom
che
por
mwl
vep
koi
bel
roh
pag
por
est
jpn
fry
mri
spa
sqi
tur
oss
kor
bar
mri
nap
snd
ron
pus
hun
ces
tet
lug
lmo
pol
eng
ast
kan
aze
jbo
slk
vep
mya
glg
hsb
swa
yid
gle
lmo
rus
mdf
grn
yid
lat
tur
krc
mon
slk
dty
pan
bcl
lit
als
tha
sco
amh
bel
sqi
ace
war
ell
mai
map-bms
cdo
nap
pol
ara
kan
hat
olo
oss
srd
nav
xho
egl
hsb
afr
nan
che
mya
bel
msa
vie
lav
crh
dty
sgs
sme
fra
sme
fas
nso
jpn
mwl
pus
udm
tur
por
msa
scn
mon
grn
hif
lmo
sgs
srd
ile
mar
fas
gle
pag
rus
mdf
khm
udm
krc
jbo
lav
hin
vol
lmo
por
nrm
koi
ibo
pdc
ori
new
snd
khm
swa
khm
lmo
ceb
nrm
vep
sme
wln
swa
ara
swe
tha
kat
tat
pcd
epo
pus
cdo
tsn
gag
pap
kor
pfl
tat
ile
arg
mkd
khm
ara
vie
arg
dsb
hrv
spa
hun
por
fas
mlt
srn
cos
isl
olo
new
nob
ina
nob
ind
ace
glg
stq
mlg
dan
grn
bod
cbk
msa
tet
hbs
afr
olo
new
asm
hin
ori
bre
ukr
sin
yid
ara
slk
tgl
mkd
hak
rup
sin
khm
kbd
lav
bar
pus
asm
bho
eus
xho
mlt
mhr
ace
pap
tet
glk
grn
eng
myv
mri
fas
wln
nob
lmo
mdf
div
snd
scn
tat
est
mlt
pfl
urd
cym
vie
mal
aze
ang
hbs
fra
tyv
asm
nds-nl
hif
hye
guj
bel
jbo
epo
ile
tur
kin
tat
kin
pfl
pap
yid
glk
kaz
dsb
swe
div
min
jpn
sgs
tsn
dty
stq
por
xho
fas
lao
hat
tsn
mdf
bel
bod
aze
ell
kbd
rus
nap
ita
est
kat
pus
yid
pap
amh
ltg
che
nan
ell
ell
srp
jav
mlt
guj
pag
tel
che
lmo
cdo
kan
ind
hrv
lad
mri
que
srd
ton
gag
krc
pfl
lad
pdc
nep
tam
guj
ckb
ceb
ast
mar
tsn
isl
hsb
pnb
lav
lao
srd
kaz
cor
kom
slv
rup
sqi
nap
mya
slv
spa
ell
orm
mri
sin
ava
srn
afr
tet
aym
lin
bcl
lit
eus
nno
ron
eus
bcl
khm
ukr
est
nrm
mya
hsb
cbk
bre
fin
mlt
nav
eng
nep
koi
bel
nan
pap
lmo
ast
tur
fas
bho
dsb
jbo
bjn
oss
pus
ces
ind
min
srp
als
kat
map-bms
lit
kin
amh
cbk
dan
tsn
sin
nap
hif
glk
sco
ita
cos
hin
dan
hin
sco
olo
asm
cat
eng
ell
kin
koi
krc
stq
crh
tyv
mal
aym
fao
bul
dty
ext
vep
mlg
fin
ceb
ell
ron
nav
pan
gla
nds
kbd
min
sna
tha
ron
ava
grn
por
ces
lad
roh
cat
krc
fin
eng
uig
ton
asm
crh
bjn
nav
hat
mkd
vls
nap
fas
orm
mkd
fao
pcd
amh
zea
olo
lad
eng
ind
mkd
bar
tel
ang
dan
mar
war
scn
pap
tam
pan
orm
lin
hun
bel
be-tarask
ace
tam
nob
cos
pcd
ukr
hbs
oss
new
srp
mlt
cym
guj
epo
tcy
cor
srd
hun
tsn
ceb
yid
ksh
fas
srn
hak
div
glv
hak
xho
koi
orm
vie
lez
nav
kaz
mar
arg
nob
que
sgs
fas
cat
myv
che
fas
sqi
roa-tara
hak
aze
gle
swe
pcd
aym
tel
srd
vep
gag
tel
lim
sgs
nob
zea
sco
udm
ara
dan
kan
egl
jpn
swe
ceb
fao
xho
gle
spa
pcd
vep
eng
ang
pfl
ava
lez
kat
lug
srn
ang
eng
pus
bul
grn
mkd
mai
spa
fra
snd
lez
asm
dsb
ara
tcy
mai
ori
myv
be-tarask
hrv
kin
lat
bre
spa
lmo
nep
bjn
ace
tur
lin
san
swe
nso
nob
lao
isl
cdo
mon
fur
isl
cos
orm
krc
rue
ibo
ukr
pcd
lez
nso
lao
kbd
dty
egl
ron
ara
zea
bcl
vol
min
khm
sgs
hin
wln
nso
kom
ang
bel
glv
egl
lrc
pam
cat
kbd
lug
kom
rup
map-bms
tgl
mya
slk
afr
ang
rus
hye
deu
aze
amh
hsb
lrc
swe
ori
mdf
mdf
tcy
gle
lim
bel
yid
pap
glv
lat
lit
oss
ast
lat
tur
ori
pfl
egl
amh
fur
kom
lmo
sme
ltg
myv
dan
srp
kbd
cbk
pap
lad
ace
sgs
ext
spa
eng
hak
ces
ind
roa-tara
ara
nno
guj
nob
tsn
glv
egl
nds
gle
tur
frp
bho
slk
koi
pnb
pdc
nds
arg
hak
bcl
lad
mlt
kan
bpy
dan
san
dty
tyv
pdc
nld
vep
nep
bxr
mkd
msa
tcy
yid
fas
pol
sin
roa-tara
pam
mlt
jbo
lad
ibo
mal
tet
kor
hsb
bho
gag
nds
roh
gla
bre
pan
pap
swa
bjn
sco
min
tam
pan
eus
afr
ckb
ina
bcl
lrc
tyv
frp
kat
war
mdf
mhr
urd
ibo
pag
glg
nso
ell
myv
tel
asm
ext
dty
tur
sna
kaz
glk
tur
glk
afr
mal
sna
tyv
udm
wln
afr
fry
tcy
map-bms
pcd
ibo
yid
sqi
orm
fur
frp
ltg
srn
tat
cor
udm
cym
jpn
hak
kom
tcy
kat
krc
ton
egl
dty
sme
pfl
hun
gla
jav
kaz
hbs
vep
fry
mai
pap
sco
cos
bxr
pan
ton
lit
pag
pfl
koi
gle
pfl
lim
map-bms
mri
fra
pan
fry
bre
bcl
slk
san
tam
spa
ina
bjn
yid
mri
bho
lit
vls
mai
scn
nds-nl
ita
ext
nso
yid
tha
nld
bel
bcl
ang
oss
que
aym
ara
que
swa
pap
fas
pdc
hak
msa
scn
tsn
lrc
gag
ltg
slk
mar
hbs
vie
pnb
tel
guj
srp
pnb
khm
mar
nds-nl
msa
ara
ksh
wln
pnb
kin
urd
ang
fur
hbs
sin
krc
urd
krc
egl
srd
tha
bel
ava
zea
sme
fra
mya
srp
uig
ast
krc
est
nep
grn
ukr
bul
tsn
ava
oci
vol
rup
mya
crh
sme
pdc
kor
tam
roa-tara
ind
tet
egl
nds
msa
hye
guj
kor
ace
nan
egl
ind
glk
ava
kan
lit
mlt
fra
rup
mri
lez
cdo
tcy
fry
aze
glv
map-bms
ava
ang
mhr
bxr
hsb
nld
ltg
rus
fry
cat
rup
spa
mhr
hun
lad
hun
fin
roh
ron
jpn
nob
afr
div
myv
cos
kbd
ang
als
tcy
arg
mon
ceb
tat
ell
ara
sme
khm
lim
nap
ell
ton
be-tarask
nds
por
roa-tara
pus
swe
nan
ceb
jpn
uig
pnb
hak
glv
slk
fao
nrm
tha
lao
epo
pdc
kbd
kor
slk
nds-nl
afr
sna
swe
bre
mlt
bcl
war
kaz
gle
nno
ita
ron
tur
hrv
ell
mai
tat
cbk
pcd
hak
jbo
kom
mdf
nep
lim
ltg
swe
olo
afr
glg
nap
lad
frp
tat
lat
kaz
snd
bpy
rup
asm
sin
hun
kaz
min
tet
deu
stq
egl
ori
fas
kaz
lin
mkd
mlg
pdc
pam
gag
pan
nld
mya
nld
ron
vep
be-tarask
nap
jav
kbd
krc
epo
cdo
grn
bpy
rup
fin
hak
als
que
ukr
nld
tat
jav
glg
swa
mwl
msa
nds
grn
ast
tcy
bho
div
che
kan
olo
new
bjn
rup
orm
ukr
bxr
glv
cbk
dan
lao
koi
vep
roa-tara
glg
new
mwl
nav
dsb
grn
egl
new
afr
cor
udm
scn
hat
bcl
pan
koi
ava
lim
nav
ksh
snd
wln
pan
mkd
ace
sin
egl
scn
kan
aym
kom
hye
bxr
tat
cbk
lit
hat
lat
bre
por
als
ina
bxr
fao
ibo
uig
dsb
glg
asm
bar
lit
ksh
lav
lim
tsn
ita
hin
egl
bul
nno
khm
tet
ckb
new
myv
bxr
pus
gle
eng
srn
mar
lez
lim
kat
lim
ckb
hbs
mar
sqi
be-tarask
tet
tcy
dan
eng
stq
ita
egl
ckb
mal
arg
kaz
lad
krc
war
mkd
crh
guj
hsb
pdc
nob
urd
lrc
sgs
nno
csb
asm
lad
sin
rup
tet
tgl
tha
epo
cat
lez
csb
div
afr
nrm
ang
fra
guj
vol
min
pap
dty
jbo
mal
msa
hbs
fao
ita
tsn
hif
kin
kom
als
srp
scn
rus
lit
hin
grn
msa
spa
srd
nno
hak
tha
deu
grn
tyv
fao
srn
swe
lin
pnb
kbd
scn
dty
hsb
hsb
hak
lrc
gag
hat
pap
glg
uig
koi
ell
gag
vls
mdf
ell
tsn
csb
hun
lit
ina
hrv
nep
mar
bre
frp
bel
nan
sgs
jbo
ast
ksh
div
mkd
srd
orm
map-bms
nan
nob
koi
bre
yid
srp
udm
hun
ava
pfl
sin
lug
ile
hat
lad
be-tarask
mhr
bul
ext
frp
bxr
xho
srd
krc
gag
est
ltg
pam
tha
map-bms
srn
pcd
lim
frp
roh
nld
eus
hun
scn
msa
crh
hbs
jpn
fao
gle
slv
lmo
tyv
msa
pol
ang
hye
pol
pus
pfl
ceb
hsb
hun
udm
new
srp
ind
tyv
ibo
tcy
roh
mri
pfl
urd
ksh
aym
mya
nan
srp
lim
war
pol
jav
cym
ast
nrm
sme
mlt
fry
war
xho
sme
hbs
pfl
yid
isl
fao
min
nrm
jbo
ile
glk
ibo
tgl
roa-tara
vep
myv
tcy
div
mri
gla
stq
krc
lez
mri
amh
epo
ton
war
new
bjn
mlt
sqi
cdo
nan
nan
swa
por
swe
bul
tgl
div
myv
yid
lim
mhr
dty
ind
dsb
ast
gla
rue
map-bms
afr
lit
crh
udm
zea
amh
amh
por
pfl
ckb
pnb
deu
vie
wln
deu
por
tgl
mal
pag
frp
pol
deu
sgs
bre
que
pus
mwl
map-bms
pdc
asm
gag
tat
map-bms
ace
glg
tgl
hbs
glg
hat
rus
est
pcd
div
yid
lmo
bho
kor
new
xho
krc
kor
ast
ita
isl
jpn
hak
slv
asm
uig
urd
fao
nav
ron
deu
myv
oci
eng
wln
vep
vie
fry
msa
ava
mkd
ukr
mar
nds
pfl
nso
ang
ara
lat
nap
hun
tsn
eus
bho
kor
pcd
mon
grn
vol
kbd
krc
hbs
uig
srd
ita
lav
fur
kat
kaz
rup
lin
div
ceb
ibo
srd
glg
msa
kan
map-bms
olo
ell
jbo
wln
vep
pan
msa
epo
bxr
ind
cor
eng
bxr
lez
hun
gla
por
kan
roa-tara
hsb
slk
hsb
isl
spa
hat
ind
roh
pam
uig
crh
tel
xmf
krc
div
bod
frp
pam
nds-nl
est
lad
zea
pan
lad
slv
nno
vol
glg
fra
fry
xho
sco
tsn
slv
map-bms
roa-tara
ukr
hif
sco
kom
pfl
glg
orm
cos
bul
hif
bho
ind
als
be-tarask
tsn
lav
sqi
xho
guj
isl
lin
rue
lad
nap
nav
udm
csb
nds-nl
vls
asm
mal
ile
tam
uig
glk
sqi
jav
eng
mlt
ori
cor
pnb
lav
bjn
rup
mya
swa
pam
kin
bcl
lug
sna
nan
mai
pol
bul
crh
zea
ceb
fur
sna
swe
ext
sme
ast
be-tarask
ang
ltg
frp
olo
egl
bod
khm
lim
srn
hak
msa
fry
nav
cdo
hun
roa-tara
nob
bar
sna
pus
gag
fry
lav
afr
rus
bpy
nav
xho
tet
pus
est
spa
als
srd
tam
roh
kbd
msa
jpn
xmf
ton
cos
nds
jav
cat
pan
wln
lmo
lmo
mai
por
wln
arg
bcl
amh
cat
tat
isl
kor
ukr
nso
nap
afr
tet
kor
war
div
glk
pus
kan
dsb
mlg
arg
mlt
tet
csb
pag
lit
ceb
sna
gag
lat
vol
hbs
sqi
zea
div
be-tarask
cym
grn
tsn
div
min
pus
hye
deu
pag
lad
eng
nrm
lit
spa
swa
mri
fin
fao
sqi
mya
san
hak
vie
kor
gle
mlg
ara
nav
tcy
mri
slk
est
min
nap
fao
aym
slv
hbs
pap
mdf
amh
kaz
bpy
bjn
amh
xho
srn
afr
lmo
ina
ukr
eng
srn
xmf
mkd
sco
hye
map-bms
mkd
be-tarask
asm
que
que
pol
nrm
nav
vls
fra
scn
srn
lug
san
lim
ile
ile
bul
mdf
aze
koi
rue
ina
ces
asm
cbk
kbd
mkd
fin
krc
bpy
lez
ara
mon
ava
lim
khm
dan
xmf
zea
lim
bod
ron
mai
ron
aym
mar
cdo
mkd
swe
ast
ceb
cbk
lin
war
por
srp
fur
vls
new
stq
wln
tgl
bre
ast
eus
lug
tha
tet
nld
lad
nno
fra
vep
ces
que
grn
lmo
kan
tet
lmo
arg
ibo
urd
mya
mhr
kom
olo
mon
deu
che
ksh
hye
cat
asm
fur
hin
pnb
sna
kin
cym
vie
tet
hsb
aym
tcy
glk
nds-nl
mon
ile
cat
dan
mlg
hak
udm
rus
gag
cbk
tha
nep
nno
oss
mlt
vls
ces
koi
che
mon
kor
lmo
mdf
lit
bxr
pag
roh
gag
nob
zea
eus
nav
tur
als
pfl
glg
swe
mdf
slk
ind
mlg
vie
ksh
gle
epo
kin
msa
san
isl
scn
bho
tet
tat
hye
hin
nep
gla
rue
mya
csb
nds-nl
gle
jbo
ina
xho
ori
ltg
rup
isl
lrc
mya
ina
ckb
snd
ell
pus
srd
epo
hun
ita
cdo
nan
bho
bjn
epo
mri
ava
nld
ukr
map-bms
san
tyv
ell
hbs
fao
afr
krc
ltg
che
stq
hrv
oss
ksh
dty
que
csb
gla
srd
mon
tam
als
xho
hak
ina
por
eng
srn
vls
csb
ell
tel
ara
sna
ast
crh
arg
ast
epo
tha
mon
msa
che
hak
scn
ace
vie
dsb
lug
srd
als
als
pdc
bpy
tel
cdo
xho
als
jav
scn
cbk
ksh
kbd
glg
hin
xmf
spa
kom
crh
cym
fin
eus
srp
ltg
pus
que
nrm
pam
glk
frp
udm
tat
min
nap
fao
kor
est
tam
roa-tara
nav
slv
lez
cbk
vol
aze
kbd
arg
tgl
fry
mri
ile
pag
lit
gle
mlt
hin
kat
tel
kat
bar
est
bul
srd
hun
srd
vol
tam
tat
oss
gle
isl
wln
ext
kaz
tsn
wln
slv
dsb
afr
eus
rus
dsb
fra
rue
rue
gla
dty
tel
che
jbo
bho
hun
orm
cbk
nds
egl
mdf
ava
hrv
dsb
roh
fao
por
div
ina
kin
sgs
wln
ang
xmf
tat
bar
lit
afr
nrm
lit
pan
mya
glg
uig
gla
bul
ron
amh
sin
mon
srp
kat
pus
kaz
mwl
pan
bpy
tyv
asm
tyv
glv
ell
sme
dsb
mya
lao
sgs
mlt
bcl
ksh
fur
bho
mlg
lav
hat
min
sco
nds-nl
aym
kor
pus
snd
kom
que
fao
mon
als
ell
new
jbo
tat
cor
als
gla
srp
pdc
bel
tgl
pcd
tat
asm
cdo
tat
krc
kor
fur
bod
zea
ind
pag
nrm
srd
est
bxr
bre
cbk
swe
cym
lat
nep
san
cdo
vep
grn
che
bul
ita
ltg
mon
ksh
aze
glg
lez
nav
tyv
hye
hin
kan
glv
sme
mwl
srn
ile
tyv
nob
krc
glg
ext
kin
sco
als
tam
lrc
fry
ibo
nap
dty
che
vls
zea
zea
hif
csb
stq
fao
pcd
myv
map-bms
ton
bpy
lez
tha
wln
pus
csb
srd
dsb
mlg
bul
glv
san
als
pdc
lim
bre
als
fao
gle
xmf
bod
fao
mwl
war
tgl
nld
olo
egl
cat
map-bms
lao
krc
ita
oss
udm
lez
hye
krc
pam
ara
ckb
dty
mhr
ori
sqi
mal
ina
kan
nan
new
bel
vie
eng
oci
swa
mkd
bxr
che
kat
rue
lug
oci
pus
lug
div
srp
roh
lat
lmo
oss
est
mon
ukr
nep
que
dan
crh
cor
kaz
div
tam
kin
lug
srd
srp
olo
mkd
pan
mon
myv
arg
ckb
wln
bel
khm
bre
map-bms
ron
fry
slv
roa-tara
hbs
ckb
fin
zea
fry
ina
oss
ori
kom
ace
pol
krc
tet
glk
map-bms
tcy
vep
sme
eng
olo
tcy
nep
pdc
krc
roh
sme
bho
glk
koi
sme
dsb
pdc
tam
roh
khm
kat
mdf
oci
asm
olo
pam
que
yid
bxr
tgl
pus
krc
slk
que
ile
slv
sqi
tur
egl
vol
vie
deu
kan
nds
cos
eng
ksh
arg
slv
mlt
gag
kin
bod
ind
hye
aze
urd
eus
bul
ile
jbo
nds-nl
oci
lug
slk
nrm
myv
pam
oss
pam
msa
ibo
kin
tet
arg
san
sna
orm
ceb
jbo
bre
olo
glg
ksh
nob
tur
bod
lug
dty
yid
sco
ina
mya
ast
tel
pap
stq
lim
eus
bjn
lin
vol
fra
hrv
sna
udm
lit
glv
arg
snd
cor
zea
lav
mkd
tgl
ang
cdo
swa
che
cdo
hif
hin
kan
nds
aym
ile
snd
afr
pcd
cor
fur
asm
ton
fur
dan
fur
lat
ang
mai
fas
tel
pol
dsb
als
ibo
hif
khm
tyv
slv
ibo
grn
bho
bul
fas
uig
eus
deu
roh
est
cbk
lad
scn
roh
slv
slk
lug
lug
bho
swa
hat
tyv
lit
tam
ace
ton
nld
ile
vol
vie
swa
kom
mal
pap
amh
che
tsn
ile
est
swa
grn
por
srd
tha
mwl
map-bms
lim
lim
est
dsb
tcy
ava
nld
cos
ltg
fin
scn
sqi
cbk
crh
pcd
lrc
ava
nep
mri
mlt
mya
dsb
tat
gag
mwl
msa
gag
srn
xmf
epo
spa
kor
hbs
fry
lav
frp
rue
zea
aym
ext
cym
wln
cym
snd
hye
ile
srp
ara
sqi
pnb
nap
nrm
tha
spa
ast
pan
nob
min
ace
gla
kat
koi
kin
sgs
tyv
sgs
ori
xho
bel
lao
mhr
csb
por
bul
khm
min
cos
rue
ltg
cos
nob
swa
kbd
bar
tet
afr
nso
spa
nap
ext
glk
cbk
pol
aze
ang
aze
pdc
pcd
tsn
ile
ast
srn
myv
sqi
tyv
aze
aze
yid
kaz
kat
frp
deu
lad
afr
tha
hrv
rue
isl
srd
ang
hun
div
ces
bcl
ext
pam
ina
nan
pan
bcl
urd
zea
wln
bel
kin
fur
hun
que
pcd
be-tarask
ext
bcl
orm
mhr
glg
bxr
pap
swe
lit
epo
hsb
egl
pnb
cdo
fra
stq
nld
lim
map-bms
udm
fur
nep
jpn
grn
bcl
new
lat
san
nan
que
ron
ast
fas
ava
pap
nep
ell
be-tarask
min
cdo
fra
nld
ron
yid
pam
ast
pdc
mwl
mdf
fas
spa
ckb
map-bms
por
bod
mlg
zea
dan
glv
nap
ckb
mkd
kom
lin
srp
bpy
lug
cor
sgs
wln
ltg
arg
mwl
ori
orm
nap
bpy
als
pag
fur
krc
mon
kor
hsb
ltg
nds-nl
pap
tsn
bxr
nds-nl
est
hye
cos
pdc
nav
cor
hsb
crh
nan
lmo
lit
wln
lin
vol
fin
hbs
jbo
glg
zea
lug
urd
bar
div
dsb
ast
vls
roa-tara
ita
lrc
hbs
oss
ltg
ace
crh
glv
gag
pus
lin
kbd
mdf
hin
hsb
kin
mal
koi
yid
lav
bod
lat
myv
pag
deu
bre
pdc
bre
sna
pfl
olo
nno
mhr
mai
lug
pdc
nds
ron
jbo
new
tcy
spa
stq
yid
ind
pol
be-tarask
pnb
aze
slk
fra
ron
egl
lug
fin
cor
lao
egl
mwl
lmo
myv
khm
tcy
bul
tsn
ukr
asm
war
oss
crh
ast
pus
mal
csb
hin
cor
khm
xmf
pan
pap
mai
arg
snd
urd
fin
tyv
msa
ton
roh
dan
ibo
pdc
tel
ukr
pap
min
hin
olo
grn
roh
rus
lad
mlg
ces
asm
pnb
nan
koi
ceb
mlt
kin
fao
hak
bcl
myv
kbd
als
dsb
tam
scn
sco
kin
map-bms
lin
cat
mar
pam
oss
lit
lit
ell
tet
hin
bho
guj
lmo
xmf
nds
snd
cos
nav
mya
dsb
kin
min
wln
nan
hye
ara
arg
xho
bcl
ile
fra
pap
ltg
aym
tur
bar
sna
mai
roh
ton
lao
kin
est
nld
bod
lim
ava
rue
srn
cor
ara
glk
mwl
cos
ell
mdf
nds-nl
fur
kbd
mal
koi
sco
hun
isl
rup
min
crh
dan
map-bms
fas
nob
ell
rup
yid
hye
pdc
div
fry
guj
gag
srn
ces
kin
mai
ibo
slk
xmf
ltg
sgs
glv
roh
oss
orm
srn
vep
nan
scn
tat
asm
mlg
kom
udm
bel
ile
mal
xho
glv
afr
ava
hin
kat
bel
fas
fas
hbs
min
sna
swa
pag
sqi
xho
bpy
scn
mwl
sgs
sco
mar
new
ukr
cos
cbk
est
new
mwl
ukr
scn
afr
uig
nan
gla
div
bjn
tcy
xho
aze
lug
tyv
mar
mai
lrc
mal
sin
sgs
gle
hsb
cat
bel
gle
mon
gle
glk
rus
lmo
mhr
lug
glg
mlg
kbd
vep
xmf
als
swa
dan
lit
ibo
ces
slv
che
vls
lav
pan
war
min
rus
aze
war
mhr
mal
mkd
oss
be-tarask
ang
scn
por
div
hun
xho
gag
myv
dsb
msa
amh
gle
myv
amh
ile
oci
olo
hif
srn
kaz
ton
ita
eus
tgl
tha
crh
hat
tur
crh
khm
ita
guj
ace
srp
egl
fao
deu
wln
roh
lit
oci
ace
nob
vie
nso
stq
hif
msa
fin
srn
frp
cym
pcd
mhr
ron
ile
nrm
fry
aym
bxr
bpy
hat
lit
nno
tyv
nan
pag
hye
krc
ori
hin
lrc
kin
hak
fao
vep
swe
nno
slv
mlt
ces
cat
bjn
lao
scn
hat
slv
mdf
rus
hat
sna
deu
tsn
fra
kan
mar
mhr
pnb
oci
new
roh
ina
tcy
deu
mai
dan
kbd
als
ell
hin
lmo
pol
lad
nav
fry
bxr
pan
lit
jbo
tgl
ckb
snd
slk
cbk
tha
bcl
lrc
rup
jbo
ksh
tha
jpn
pan
swe
ltg
nds-nl
glv
mai
lit
bxr
pus
pol
myv
map-bms
pfl
bxr
mon
jpn
ast
rup
hat
mlt
rue
bcl
udm
map-bms
jpn
hye
rue
yid
tha
koi
hat
jbo
mdf
nds-nl
mar
fas
dty
frp
bul
ces
ava
hbs
ceb
bxr
gle
srp
tsn
dty
sgs
tet
mai
nav
sin
srn
ara
tat
eus
frp
aym
lad
orm
tel
vep
spa
guj
mri
lit
sqi
kor
sin
nan
lin
slv
spa
nan
ceb
vls
grn
roa-tara
bxr
kbd
cdo
spa
dsb
mai
orm
bre
eus
vls
nno
rup
ile
nob
fry
sco
tcy
zea
yid
nds
div
ang
roa-tara
sgs
pnb
lad
hun
vls
hsb
mya
jav
hin
sna
ckb
pap
ile
vep
cbk
dan
hrv
roa-tara
bel
srn
gle
tel
myv
ast
guj
min
lug
xho
rus
kom
ang
hat
srp
hrv
bcl
ace
nan
lug
lmo
tel
aym
koi
deu
mon
lit
eng
mkd
pcd
mon
mlg
vie
glv
ceb
deu
udm
fao
csb
stq
ara
est
bcl
est
ron
mdf
tur
slk
tha
srd
lao
xho
spa
ibo
hat
lav
kan
csb
tet
ina
mkd
srp
hrv
tam
cdo
srp
grn
fur
nds-nl
ext
vol
hif
stq
pcd
kat
pap
kin
bjn
aym
olo
snd
vie
aym
hsb
wln
be-tarask
ita
tsn
aze
hsb
kaz
hak
bho
fas
bar
vie
lao
pnb
ltg
kom
als
koi
ron
lao
pus
egl
kin
min
mhr
lug
fin
pam
isl
nan
pan
sme
msa
xmf
srp
kaz
kaz
ara
ext
slk
tet
hrv
mhr
est
roh
ori
aym
srn
deu
hin
min
mwl
amh
deu
wln
min
slk
ckb
bel
pan
ang
afr
por
lrc
pus
mon
bho
hrv
roh
fry
rus
ron
als
oci
bjn
aym
bel
hin
ara
ina
pam
glv
srn
als
dsb
slk
roh
oci
frp
tel
pcd
roa-tara
dan
dty
swe
ell
afr
tcy
snd
nep
aze
bjn
urd
tam
lit
hin
bre
map-bms
dty
scn
jpn
crh
hat
sna
lim
als
ina
glv
ltg
rus
hun
vol
fry
mhr
lav
tcy
ava
que
olo
jpn
mar
tat
tyv
xmf
mdf
ind
kan
ron
vie
fra
nrm
dsb
kan
pnb
lug
gag
hak
pcd
glv
pcd
hbs
swa
bod
ksh
tgl
pcd
pag
che
lav
hat
lin
ara
bre
sgs
war
nob
olo
vie
egl
cos
nav
pag
srp
tcy
nds-nl
lrc
sqi
oci
urd
vie
mai
tsn
mlg
hun
nob
rup
nso
pol
lad
ita
ita
slv
tyv
que
pam
nso
nav
ava
fas
nld
tha
min
min
nds
kin
rue
jav
tet
new
lim
lav
pam
cbk
tam
mon
pdc
new
cor
ceb
sin
mhr
ltg
xho
cdo
pan
ext
lat
tyv
hsb
oss
sin
srn
amh
orm
map-bms
jbo
glk
kan
sqi
slv
est
ile
hbs
fur
pan
hat
hbs
slv
glg
epo
nds
rus
oss
mon
ton
als
hsb
afr
mdf
egl
srd
ton
dty
egl
srp
lav
pag
tat
jav
hbs
cdo
slv
swe
hrv
pdc
srn
hif
bre
glk
frp
kaz
nld
msa
bel
mya
kom
sin
csb
sme
gag
eus
kom
mri
nan
hin
pus
krc
hin
vie
wln
mya
mkd
mlg
eng
krc
mri
tat
amh
gla
lin
mdf
sqi
uig
ibo
bod
mwl
mar
mya
uig
swe
pfl
tgl
tel
hif
bpy
orm
bre
arg
eng
lao
cdo
amh
orm
bpy
bod
ell
tcy
sco
sna
hrv
roh
jav
mdf
bho
pfl
mdf
lad
pol
tcy
crh
slv
pcd
lrc
swe
por
tur
kan
nld
srn
aze
nds-nl
lao
kbd
tgl
mhr
sin
als
kom
bpy
ast
hak
rup
tgl
bcl
rus
mal
ltg
ell
zea
mar
csb
ron
pdc
bar
tur
pan
khm
bel
mlg
est
deu
pol
ces
nld
fra
ton
xho
hbs
nds-nl
tgl
lad
tat
kaz
gla
lim
udm
dan
hat
isl
scn
nep
glg
myv
frp
new
jbo
nds-nl
mlt
oss
div
srn
bel
ibo
mhr
min
mlt
slk
orm
ile
glk
kaz
ile
swe
ita
amh
nso
bod
div
udm
war
ile
nep
kat
pnb
dty
mar
pcd
vie
mwl
mlt
cym
ang
pcd
eng
nep
lao
mon
sna
pag
nan
tat
cos
ksh
mwl
srp
ita
mar
lez
zea
pdc
als
scn
udm
fas
koi
orm
ext
nds
xmf
kbd
swa
lrc
hun
gag
guj
kan
aym
gla
mhr
hye
mlg
tgl
cdo
egl
cor
deu
stq
gle
pus
new
rus
pfl
nrm
fao
pcd
afr
bjn
mya
afr
vep
nap
mai
mlt
rue
bar
fao
nav
lat
yid
nds-nl
nld
als
div
cat
nap
lez
mdf
ron
glg
roa-tara
nan
frp
eus
srd
kor
nan
rue
wln
fur
ori
tgl
krc
bxr
bre
nno
srp
pan
bre
pam
slk
ita
fra
fur
dty
mlt
vls
nep
swa
ori
tat
fin
mai
tgl
bul
lez
tur
que
nap
glg
hbs
glk
ext
lad
tyv
bho
mon
scn
cos
mai
eng
als
bre
cor
amh
deu
vol
fin
tcy
dan
rup
div
mdf
msa
tel
krc
lav
nrm
rus
srn
cor
hye
war
kaz
fra
lim
san
vls
rue
bpy
tam
fin
mlg
cdo
uig
cbk
fry
ace
lad
hrv
lrc
dty
sco
tgl
nav
nno
lav
est
lmo
dty
ace
mlg
cdo
tcy
pol
sco
jbo
nep
ava
fas
kat
lav
nan
mon
ita
bcl
hbs
hun
hsb
vep
que
glv
srn
srp
bpy
kat
ksh
div
srp
bjn
lad
gag
pan
ext
mri
sgs
ell
cat
hat
pol
vie
por
xmf
mai
lao
tyv
tha
dsb
cbk
vls
nno
nno
myv
rue
slk
tel
ibo
gla
mri
xmf
hrv
ksh
dan
map-bms
lim
lim
xho
map-bms
ron
sco
lav
rus
tet
pap
bxr
ita
ell
min
kaz
tsn
srn
nap
pan
udm
dan
swe
eus
yid
tam
lao
scn
nap
tsn
mdf
lim
cbk
war
tam
tha
pam
als
war
pag
als
ina
kbd
yid
tur
zea
jpn
orm
mal
war
dty
vie
sme
amh
ext
ile
egl
ces
nds
stq
cat
cos
pus
jbo
vep
tel
slv
war
spa
ext
nrm
epo
dsb
nob
ita
bcl
myv
epo
bul
div
est
yid
tur
mri
fao
mwl
roh
pam
ita
be-tarask
ckb
bul
uig
glv
min
tyv
por
epo
spa
krc
kat
pdc
nrm
lao
lat
mri
bjn
map-bms
rus
slk
fur
glk
ukr
oci
mwl
dan
dan
fra
lug
swa
mwl
rue
che
tel
nso
mlt
jbo
lez
ara
est
xmf
hin
msa
kor
pan
tat
oci
hye
mdf
nan
ibo
srn
arg
kbd
tet
roh
rup
nds-nl
ina
pfl
tat
kin
ces
nld
san
udm
min
stq
bcl
nds
spa
ind
cbk
pdc
grn
sgs
tat
lim
nob
stq
kat
tgl
vls
jpn
kom
eng
ukr
srn
yid
bpy
kin
mai
ind
pdc
cbk
ell
lad
mri
afr
est
rue
hak
ast
sgs
lmo
mon
koi
hrv
dsb
srp
udm
tsn
aze
est
srn
uig
kat
glk
hif
srn
aze
mri
hrv
zea
eng
lez
sin
mon
fra
olo
sqi
rus
ceb
ina
lit
ton
als
mal
xmf
hun
lit
gag
sme
hun
mdf
ace
xmf
bjn
mai
vls
tsn
roh
kan
jav
tyv
kor
bod
egl
oss
asm
bjn
sco
hrv
myv
kor
udm
ara
oss
mya
ukr
ara
roh
tet
mya
ina
mhr
gag
hye
hin
amh
uig
mhr
vep
mlt
isl
sme
hrv
ast
amh
hak
hye
nld
jav
bre
lin
war
ita
kor
hsb
bxr
snd
eus
bre
pam
min
pus
nan
hsb
olo
srn
mwl
ori
bpy
ton
lat
tgl
pus
spa
che
nso
lrc
war
nds-nl
dty
jbo
mya
mya
uig
lmo
ceb
sin
bar
bel
egl
ita
gag
pol
kat
guj
koi
pnb
jpn
hat
ori
gag
nno
egl
gag
war
snd
ina
jav
ibo
fao
pap
oci
orm
vep
msa
fur
csb
ext
koi
bar
lin
srd
kan
orm
est
fin
egl
srp
lrc
epo
mlt
glg
ron
glg
ita
fry
kin
cat
guj
aym
slv
hat
pol
jav
hin
ava
ast
ava
new
hsb
san
slk
swa
frp
oci
oss
bxr
mwl
pan
tha
roa-tara
nap
bod
nld
xmf
jpn
nap
lav
krc
kom
lug
ang
hat
koi
pol
rup
hat
tyv
hrv
gle
cos
xmf
amh
pag
tsn
gag
lit
mal
mal
ltg
mar
sqi
que
ksh
tgl
lao
yid
bre
ton
ita
srn
fur
xho
wln
ces
olo
amh
myv
gle
vep
ton
vls
jbo
cym
ext
swe
tel
nso
hrv
nld
nds-nl
mai
rup
slk
nep
mhr
nds-nl
scn
ron
dsb
srd
nld
amh
swe
lug
orm
rup
roh
ind
slk
hsb
xho
uig
ckb
hrv
mai
kaz
srp
nav
bcl
msa
min
mlt
xmf
afr
olo
srp
myv
ell
gla
srd
yid
new
bpy
tgl
jpn
udm
uig
jav
cat
tha
ori
kbd
hbs
vie
bpy
tat
myv
cat
kat
khm
stq
oci
tet
bcl
sqi
hat
map-bms
lit
hrv
tgl
eus
san
olo
roa-tara
myv
mar
ina
krc
est
aze
amh
vie
olo
bpy
hsb
cym
tha
mri
ori
nds
sgs
ltg
ukr
mri
que
guj
msa
lmo
lrc
tur
war
sco
hun
scn
pam
hak
glk
hif
mdf
vol
roh
jav
hrv
nds
bod
spa
pan
glk
tha
tam
lug
fry
afr
mal
srn
lmo
tur
ibo
tgl
cbk
mya
san
be-tarask
wln
ksh
sco
egl
hrv
oci
nno
khm
zea
guj
aze
eng
map-bms
gle
wln
roh
jav
myv
afr
que
tcy
ava
mwl
tyv
vep
lez
mar
ton
sgs
vie
roh
koi
lrc
crh
ang
mlt
jbo
ckb
bjn
isl
zea
nav
jpn
mdf
kaz
bel
lat
mwl
kan
hbs
nno
isl
aym
spa
asm
jpn
jav
ava
csb
ori
hin
mwl
afr
vep
pdc
guj
koi
glv
ita
cdo
div
ara
pdc
ind
san
glg
pol
slv
als
lrc
pcd
pan
ast
hak
nan
pfl
pfl
rue
yid
swe
hun
que
hsb
sme
snd
sme
gle
sme
yid
tgl
ile
bjn
slk
vls
lrc
ara
lim
mdf
dsb
bel
div
nob
dan
pfl
ext
min
lao
dan
bar
bre
war
sco
fur
tel
sna
tcy
sme
tur
vls
ces
amh
glk
ces
bcl
lat
nav
frp
kan
cbk
glv
ace
deu
nds
lmo
kaz
olo
srn
gag
war
uig
deu
epo
kor
lao
ara
roa-tara
lat
pnb
mon
als
lat
guj
lug
tyv
mal
pfl
tgl
lim
nso
kan
lit
sin
fur
sqi
fin
isl
mya
vls
ori
yid
tel
swa
kor
amh
hif
orm
xho
gle
fas
vep
nav
crh
ace
asm
nld
vls
guj
srd
sme
nep
mya
est
gle
lug
gla
hun
vie
als
nso
bho
hat
bul
hun
pam
nrm
ava
grn
cbk
fin
hrv
kaz
hun
rue
ile
nld
zea
che
nav
lmo
glv
fra
cbk
pfl
aze
ava
als
mhr
roa-tara
tat
ron
tgl
deu
myv
nno
ast
glg
kor
fao
mai
jbo
ace
kbd
snd
glg
ton
snd
udm
als
roh
asm
bel
nso
eus
pcd
ckb
frp
frp
ile
gla
nld
koi
vep
rup
oci
nep
grn
tam
sna
snd
rup
nso
nob
pfl
oss
als
scn
pnb
mri
map-bms
urd
srd
nds
vep
zea
cos
lat
be-tarask
zea
kbd
hrv
roa-tara
csb
xmf
sco
slv
mon
lat
hye
mya
nrm
aym
glk
pag
gla
div
fry
kaz
vie
ckb
fin
ext
mri
mon
ell
ton
koi
bel
xho
pdc
cbk
fas
hye
fin
nob
be-tarask
mai
bxr
arg
bcl
pfl
lav
kbd
nap
ile
bel
ibo
mar
hbs
pus
ibo
fin
koi
bho
ina
tur
swe
hbs
slk
vep
tel
tyv
ces
wln
xho
sco
guj
tgl
pol
glv
kom
fry
tel
pnb
udm
ina
hbs
jpn
snd
mai
tat
gle
hbs
srn
khm
snd
nap
pfl
aze
nds-nl
aze
myv
hak
sin
nrm
srn
nap
stq
roa-tara
nso
hak
pam
hin
amh
jav
hun
nso
aym
ace
bxr
mlt
war
mya
kin
min
egl
ell
nld
arg
aze
dan
gla
mai
rue
srd
eng
slv
hrv
rup
swa
tat
lim
lad
kom
bxr
oci
ltg
bod
roh
rue
grn
pan
mhr
ksh
als
pap
por
nav
ace
hye
hif
afr
ang
vls
por
bre
ori
asm
amh
ang
slk
pam
ang
hin
csb
lit
sna
war
tam
hif
isl
asm
jbo
scn
hin
ara
tgl
vie
koi
che
lez
fra
mhr
gag
rup
lrc
est
che
khm
kom
amh
oss
mwl
pdc
rue
bul
mya
be-tarask
bel
ara
rue
vol
mlg
xho
est
rue
myv
udm
olo
sin
hye
che
est
mdf
sco
eng
koi
glv
kin
kbd
pam
por
grn
div
mai
dty
pan
koi
nno
sme
guj
ara
afr
xmf
roa-tara
bre
mal
asm
por
hak
ksh
mar
xmf
cbk
mar
ava
bjn
nno
ang
gla
hun
krc
ava
urd
slv
mlt
crh
tgl
ita
div
lao
eng
tsn
jav
fao
lim
oss
cbk
deu
gla
kan
roa-tara
nno
slk
dan
zea
ava
mal
slk
ltg
amh
nrm
lez
srn
nav
nno
eng
lmo
crh
kat
div
gla
ext
nob
rue
cbk
rup
udm
nob
mai
sqi
lad
fra
sme
swe
sco
amh
pan
udm
tam
kin
new
slk
fin
cbk
mdf
lin
sqi
tam
jav
kbd
eng
por
kbd
sqi
gag
pol
grn
tet
nap
koi
pol
als
orm
lmo
pag
egl
crh
ace
kan
gle
mkd
cdo
srp
fin
pol
egl
lez
kin
hun
bre
mwl
khm
lmo
lav
eng
lin
sqi
tyv
uig
roh
mlg
tat
sco
sme
glv
lat
ori
udm
tha
oss
mkd
epo
mon
frp
glk
lez
sco
ron
snd
vep
mwl
new
ori
glv
tat
rus
hak
ukr
rue
slv
khm
kbd
koi
vol
oci
bjn
tcy
nds
bcl
jpn
koi
ina
tam
cor
ckb
hak
sqi
mal
kat
lez
ita
bho
mar
cat
war
lav
vls
glv
dan
dan
che
div
cdo
ell
rup
new
tsn
che
aze
cbk
fur
bjn
que
deu
mai
kat
gag
hsb
ast
bjn
lez
mya
ibo
nso
cym
fur
isl
ori
vol
bar
rup
glk
bxr
map-bms
cat
lit
hif
por
sme
jav
cym
amh
lav
pnb
mai
rup
mai
ori
mal
bcl
koi
cdo
est
ind
slv
bod
bcl
deu
nrm
glk
ell
kat
min
xmf
cor
bar
bxr
hat
ori
swe
nob
slk
ell
mal
mar
kbd
kin
kan
hin
hat
bpy
gle
sco
gag
srp
lav
koi
bel
por
mhr
ast
pcd
hat
lez
cos
ext
kin
nob
ukr
hbs
eus
vls
lug
bel
cos
dan
srp
rue
sme
xho
nav
bod
bho
tcy
hak
nan
ast
swe
tet
ksh
rup
arg
cor
egl
hat
sna
ang
tcy
glv
koi
tha
bjn
pol
pus
sqi
rus
tha
ksh
pam
vol
snd
cym
udm
sgs
crh
oss
udm
ell
khm
cbk
new
rus
bpy
tsn
ron
ina
lug
pcd
mwl
cor
bho
rus
pag
als
eng
snd
pus
hun
glg
mlt
ext
frp
ile
hun
lav
ace
map-bms
tsn
nso
pnb
kom
nob
mon
tam
jbo
mal
srn
csb
ukr
gag
csb
bre
lim
fao
bre
nrm
hin
hak
cym
ina
dsb
pag
mkd
urd
mai
mal
orm
tet
nep
udm
frp
kom
hin
nld
glk
sqi
ast
lrc
nob
tsn
wln
msa
hrv
nds
srp
snd
snd
tha
pdc
cdo
lin
ron
war
lav
mon
war
srd
new
epo
khm
srn
crh
tel
nrm
slv
lrc
myv
kor
ita
hrv
ind
tur
cor
mkd
hak
bho
ces
bar
tel
fao
xho
krc
dsb
nno
gag
ina
lim
ceb
ara
pan
roh
nob
tyv
ukr
ukr
pnb
bod
tsn
div
tyv
nso
gle
est
bre
vie
cos
oss
lez
ceb
tsn
uig
khm
grn
pol
lug
ori
kin
kor
frp
vie
dsb
ile
ltg
ksh
wln
mlg
hat
ces
csb
por
jbo
spa
pan
kin
jpn
nds
ita
vls
pap
xmf
vls
sgs
ckb
nob
sme
cos
krc
snd
bre
pfl
cos
hin
pcd
div
krc
spa
bho
new
slk
ell
lav
pcd
krc
fin
aze
ita
grn
tat
bpy
pfl
asm
bar
ina
lao
map-bms
eng
tsn
hun
sna
deu
pus
glv
che
lug
swe
pdc
nso
roa-tara
orm
div
pan
mon
nso
tur
afr
tet
lao
bjn
vls
snd
zea
mal
be-tarask
tha
roh
olo
nav
koi
glg
nso
mwl
que
sgs
nds
ckb
crh
mri
ext
dsb
cbk
lad
ina
aym
bel
gag
lug
myv
tyv
lad
ile
wln
pnb
bul
ckb
msa
bel
ori
lim
lrc
kan
ile
mar
bpy
fur
tat
tha
pol
olo
sme
ltg
pnb
yid
bho
cos
ile
urd
nds-nl
tcy
frp
hsb
jav
myv
ukr
kor
wln
hak
glg
hat
udm
asm
mar
pcd
glv
roa-tara
cdo
pag
ltg
arg
pan
dsb
bcl
deu
kan
nep
nan
epo
nld
be-tarask
hak
fas
mar
ori
vol
tam
fas
nob
khm
nav
stq
ast
kor
tyv
sin
mal
hif
bho
gla
bul
cor
bjn
tur
ext
mar
hye
ast
vie
nap
sgs
olo
guj
tel
mon
stq
zea
ksh
tgl
mar
nan
ast
kat
srn
ton
bho
asm
gla
che
spa
oss
bel
ukr
eus
ckb
ell
uig
bar
ina
hsb
ind
kor
lug
tet
guj
dty
wln
swa
srp
ava
glg
mkd
pcd
afr
ltg
cat
jpn
ind
glv
fao
crh
ast
xho
bul
bpy
lmo
udm
rue
snd
mal
hbs
hun
srd
nep
ukr
tha
hbs
mkd
san
ron
vol
ile
hye
tet
hsb
pcd
xho
tsn
pol
ltg
aym
rus
sco
kan
tat
dsb
pfl
bul
lav
ara
urd
uig
kbd
cos
lad
udm
hat
hin
tgl
lav
nap
glk
swe
olo
tur
cos
nno
que
hat
udm
epo
xmf
sqi
san
roh
lit
lin
lim
gle
mhr
lit
nno
ina
nav
snd
war
sco
asm
swa
oss
swa
tam
udm
mar
jav
pfl
uig
pam
nob
oci
fry
egl
hsb
scn
slv
khm
fao
uig
bjn
war
srn
aze
xmf
mon
yid
nap
tha
map-bms
udm
lez
sco
fin
nan
mwl
pnb
mlt
kom
est
xmf
fas
yid
ava
lim
glv
ckb
nob
pnb
que
guj
ukr
nld
est
ukr
guj
lat
pag
cdo
ron
lrc
dan
mdf
tyv
nds-nl
bxr
cdo
mya
nep
slk
nob
map-bms
bxr
kin
min
ang
mya
nld
frp
slk
pan
slk
msa
vep
lim
udm
ile
hun
dsb
ara
lit
mlg
pam
rup
gle
ara
mwl
ton
orm
che
lad
ton
nds
khm
ton
msa
pan
grn
new
san
vol
ron
glk
tam
olo
fur
lad
kbd
nds-nl
fra
lrc
jpn
lim
tur
tsn
ang
nep
khm
tha
olo
lez
oss
hun
fur
nso
wln
ang
zea
koi
pdc
pol
scn
bho
mlt
mal
que
csb
pam
mai
che
bxr
vol
krc
ksh
stq
msa
als
ces
sqi
kin
hye
lao
div
nep
epo
ori
tet
sqi
urd
mar
kan
hsb
nno
que
mdf
tet
dty
ina
wln
ukr
bjn
ile
bho
fin
jav
sgs
cat
epo
nld
ara
bpy
vie
khm
als
sqi
nap
ina
hbs
guj
khm
arg
hak
rue
est
udm
lat
scn
oci
ext
pap
vie
que
spa
ksh
cbk
pus
vep
glg
bxr
ibo
ace
tha
myv
gle
tet
isl
cos
nso
kat
nap
hsb
pdc
amh
tet
orm
fry
dty
mya
ibo
lad
ckb
urd
lin
ksh
aym
urd
san
eng
hye
hat
dty
nno
epo
mri
roa-tara
ext
myv
ton
tat
ext
jpn
est
fur
ibo
uig
crh
bod
pol
lao
olo
dty
hrv
vls
cdo
cat
kom
dty
swa
xho
nso
tcy
pus
ron
ton
new
xho
mkd
glv
gle
fin
roa-tara
que
mar
lad
rue
afr
sqi
eng
bar
cym
tat
mlt
kaz
rup
bjn
rue
oss
sgs
nap
dan
bho
xho
csb
cos
ind
kan
fra
bpy
fra
lug
tat
mlt
min
pnb
ile
ckb
glv
pan
ast
est
cdo
nep
glv
bel
nan
eng
lat
arg
kaz
pap
vls
cbk
frp
pcd
hat
eus
pnb
pan
mlt
aym
slv
hat
ksh
ext
mkd
slv
deu
bho
min
hrv
snd
lat
fur
slv
ceb
srn
olo
pfl
hbs
gle
hye
aym
nrm
ext
gla
kat
kaz
ind
cym
tsn
lez
hye
ces
hat
hrv
dty
vol
isl
rup
sna
mkd
bcl
swe
por
srn
lat
nan
sgs
jav
ace
ava
lrc
kat
tur
epo
lit
tur
tel
mlt
lez
kaz
roh
kan
tcy
mri
ori
ile
oss
ckb
bul
por
mwl
lao
bul
pan
por
lit
pap
nan
nno
mar
amh
jav
mai
mwl
pag
ace
orm
hat
rus
aym
nno
map-bms
orm
be-tarask
pus
por
scn
ceb
kat
hsb
vie
rup
mlt
ava
mlt
vls
swe
cat
asm
ltg
nno
ang
ron
vie
ksh
war
krc
glv
mdf
mal
slk
zea
hif
pag
cdo
isl
nob
ksh
lug
pap
san
ava
hat
lim
spa
nds
snd
map-bms
ukr
glv
lez
mkd
ron
frp
lug
srd
vls
xho
zea
kan
arg
lad
tgl
aym
bxr
hsb
nno
pfl
khm
lad
lit
nap
vls
mya
oss
tyv
pag
mon
fas
yid
nld
fur
pan
nds-nl
dty
pag
glg
ita
kat
stq
hye
lao
aym
srd
frp
bho
guj
mwl
bel
jbo
ast
ckb
pol
ile
mkd
ukr
ext
cat
ron
cym
aze
sco
bcl
vep
vol
sqi
new
slk
krc
uig
cym
kbd
cbk
oss
khm
pcd
hye
myv
uig
hat
srp
ell
srn
zea
que
crh
pus
tat
che
fra
lmo
slk
jbo
tel
bar
tyv
rup
che
lav
glv
lat
vep
gle
aym
ang
ksh
lad
cat
bod
roh
mar
cor
kor
mya
roa-tara
tur
eus
bpy
ita
eng
map-bms
ell
lez
tyv
tsn
ton
scn
wln
slv
nap
que
rup
kat
ces
pam
eng
eus
cos
orm
ace
lug
als
hat
grn
hif
rup
kat
ron
jpn
deu
bar
rue
ori
urd
kbd
uig
krc
pnb
ara
lrc
slv
hat
que
sna
lim
lad
lao
tyv
jbo
uig
mal
zea
rus
fry
jpn
crh
urd
bre
mlt
new
nep
dty
est
war
kom
fur
ukr
eus
aym
ori
nob
srd
nld
mhr
hun
kaz
isl
xmf
yid
bjn
mdf
deu
isl
hsb
ell
jbo
ton
krc
amh
pag
csb
pnb
kor
yid
bul
wln
jav
msa
ast
kan
ces
mlt
hif
tur
mlt
lav
mdf
stq
xho
frp
ang
vep
sqi
tet
vol
tha
arg
fao
ast
bjn
gle
div
ron
bxr
bcl
tur
isl
myv
mon
tha
pnb
que
sgs
aze
mar
swa
fur
snd
nso
tet
olo
ron
gla
ibo
kom
fry
war
ile
sco
lin
yid
bod
tur
wln
be-tarask
vie
xho
pan
cdo
map-bms
sgs
jav
mri
ibo
tyv
lin
egl
nrm
lug
swa
ceb
kan
eng
gla
mdf
swe
wln
msa
que
xho
nld
sin
khm
tat
dan
mon
bel
cos
deu
fra
glv
mlg
tgl
aym
gla
mlt
sqi
tcy
krc
lin
xmf
swe
cbk
hat
est
hak
pan
tyv
bho
mwl
epo
egl
khm
uig
frp
ibo
jpn
ast
hak
scn
swa
ara
vep
msa
nep
bho
tsn
asm
nob
khm
bcl
deu
tcy
ile
vep
krc
lat
fry
sna
dan
eng
pap
khm
tsn
pol
kbd
mal
ksh
nob
rue
vep
fao
eus
pan
ckb
slv
be-tarask
bar
egl
hye
mon
cat
csb
jav
est
cdo
pnb
hin
ara
ron
vol
tat
mlt
div
bel
eus
khm
cym
nan
stq
bre
roh
nld
lad
nds-nl
div
cor
stq
sna
kbd
tha
hun
bod
xmf
pan
roh
hin
mlg
ext
rue
glv
lrc
sna
mlg
pag
sna
tam
krc
pfl
scn
fur
isl
tgl
eng
new
ind
ltg
hin
tgl
cos
rup
oss
ava
mlt
tha
ile
lim
sco
nno
guj
tat
que
sqi
che
sme
bel
eus
nld
tat
vie
pnb
afr
hin
tcy
est
xmf
afr
hun
sqi
cor
jbo
mkd
lug
kor
mhr
sqi
fry
pcd
crh
kan
grn
be-tarask
tcy
mlt
nav
vol
ton
sme
snd
srd
kan
epo
tet
lim
cbk
pdc
new
mri
tam
hye
new
oss
cdo
sqi
mal
kom
pam
wln
jpn
be-tarask
pag
ext
nan
udm
mri
ast
rus
bre
ukr
asm
epo
stq
bre
swa
mhr
hun
srp
bjn
por
que
ara
ron
tet
nav
nav
ile
roa-tara
glk
nno
map-bms
ell
mal
aze
war
mon
ukr
bod
lez
glg
ast
sme
roh
sgs
tyv
swe
pol
oss
xho
ron
bho
eng
afr
jpn
pdc
vol
roa-tara
pfl
deu
scn
als
slk
san
gag
amh
que
hif
ton
ang
slk
pap
hin
mlt
slv
bul
pap
msa
sna
frp
pcd
sco
hat
olo
lad
fin
als
wln
tur
pfl
tcy
grn
crh
koi
olo
ibo
mya
tel
hif
ang
tel
pan
mri
bho
mlg
bho
mai
frp
mal
mlg
ara
tcy
dan
lad
urd
ara
pfl
bul
mon
rue
lad
ile
wln
tur
wln
kin
rup
sme
glv
vol
lug
ast
fao
hif
por
nav
pfl
ara
udm
ces
stq
tur
eng
lad
cor
ava
kom
srd
arg
lmo
dsb
ibo
sqi
nap
tcy
pap
glv
nso
nav
pdc
mdf
ceb
isl
spa
ltg
khm
bjn
amh
nrm
srd
lit
dty
pap
nds
mai
ind
yid
myv
hin
swa
tcy
pfl
srd
glk
aym
lim
guj
isl
be-tarask
rue
be-tarask
fin
lrc
urd
ace
ltg
nob
khm
mlt
aym
mai
eus
jav
hun
sgs
sin
pnb
jpn
bel
ori
bod
pcd
ori
isl
tha
xmf
cor
pdc
hye
tsn
snd
hye
glg
bar
pol
kan
tyv
wln
ton
bul
mri
arg
ltg
snd
tat
lin
ibo
vls
fur
ava
nav
aze
ind
map-bms
lit
nds-nl
vep
tat
zea
gag
bho
sna
frp
ces
pam
csb
mlg
myv
snd
roa-tara
wln
mri
cos
xho
ang
pap
bpy
bod
tgl
vls
hsb
pus
lat
nds
srp
dsb
ast
ckb
mon
cat
msa
mar
vol
pdc
olo
jav
ind
nno
nds
mon
fin
sgs
fin
als
san
uig
tsn
hun
san
lug
dsb
rue
hsb
tel
que
bho
kom
srn
kor
nap
que
nds-nl
ast
cos
ext
nno
swa
ori
lim
uig
lad
bod
bel
ori
jpn
fur
ina
ckb
als
lat
div
urd
nno
uig
nrm
ckb
lrc
che
zea
pcd
epo
jbo
snd
guj
ckb
wln
kom
ang
lim
cbk
pnb
ukr
tha
gag
mhr
hin
ori
afr
khm
arg
slv
pag
rue
jav
aym
mar
ceb
lug
lrc
nob
nrm
sqi
mlg
hsb
hif
orm
vls
afr
war
pcd
stq
spa
ace
lez
xmf
sco
slv
mwl
pcd
ibo
war
sna
min
scn
egl
gle
bpy
bcl
roa-tara
be-tarask
asm
sgs
pol
srn
cat
kin
glv
oss
fra
sqi
ori
che
lit
hat
ori
hif
als
pol
pap
hif
srn
grn
new
pfl
udm
pdc
tel
bjn
mar
slv
aym
nep
tur
fry
aze
pfl
bod
hif
pnb
deu
ckb
epo
ces
ita
nds
hin
ile
hif
dan
mwl
kor
kor
nav
xmf
glk
por
lmo
min
als
swe
dsb
cym
est
snd
nrm
srn
mdf
mlt
xmf
aze
lao
glk
vls
bar
kaz
srp
nno
scn
rus
sco
lad
fur
myv
srn
asm
mlt
ita
cor
nso
ton
scn
ckb
bod
cos
lez
lug
div
map-bms
jav
hif
sin
ukr
isl
ina
vol
slk
deu
bod
che
mkd
hin
hin
nno
bul
orm
bpy
mal
nds-nl
gag
arg
nap
jpn
aze
div
mya
ara
kin
kom
kaz
nan
vls
mar
nob
ces
nno
mai
fao
mdf
rus
san
vls
tel
hat
mlg
yid
lav
glg
gle
fur
fry
epo
cdo
sgs
egl
lit
hun
nso
olo
mkd
nep
oci
vep
sna
slv
por
arg
spa
spa
ind
vol
xho
nld
epo
nep
war
ckb
be-tarask
vep
min
ron
pap
deu
tgl
wln
egl
pus
ind
ukr
sgs
sin
roh
ori
kat
map-bms
zea
tgl
frp
fur
nob
pap
isl
wln
wln
srd
ara
hbs
glv
gle
new
scn
tcy
san
ita
urd
nob
kbd
mri
rup
pag
srn
nep
deu
tet
ces
xho
urd
nob
hbs
ext
ibo
ext
mlt
pus
crh
ibo
glv
hsb
nld
tgl
orm
nso
ron
pol
olo
hin
eus
ast
epo
nno
ext
nob
nep
por
wln
nep
ckb
pan
mar
epo
cym
bul
div
eng
lao
tet
aze
scn
mwl
pfl
olo
ton
bjn
tet
isl
ara
nob
ltg
tyv
mya
srn
bar
pus
pag
mri
glk
ukr
pdc
aze
jav
est
hat
lit
fao
lim
ckb
olo
uig
hrv
hrv
urd
hbs
als
pus
hbs
oci
pnb
cos
hsb
gag
grn
slk
myv
div
cor
fra
gle
ell
nrm
xmf
war
hbs
dty
urd
rus
san
ibo
kan
khm
fur
nep
rus
nds
ltg
hun
rue
nob
olo
eus
ita
csb
pap
ava
udm
lin
snd
fin
rus
msa
dty
tgl
que
ces
fry
spa
ron
lim
fao
kom
scn
srn
myv
pus
cos
pan
ron
mlt
lit
ext
bar
sqi
bel
frp
srp
mwl
dty
nrm
slk
nds
swa
sin
isl
pol
tha
ile
mlg
mai
hin
kin
oci
urd
lat
che
ace
lit
pus
lat
ces
nrm
pap
bpy
slk
fur
bul
ceb
rup
lug
cbk
bxr
por
ast
bel
vep
nep
sme
pan
udm
mwl
mhr
vls
mar
hun
myv
cbk
new
kaz
pan
nso
srd
rup
csb
gla
sqi
jbo
amh
fin
mai
slv
new
div
glv
eus
kan
pag
hsb
crh
nan
myv
cym
lit
stq
ton
cat
cym
jbo
tgl
ton
mlt
scn
bul
sco
fas
nds
mai
ava
hak
asm
lin
mlg
lao
ang
fas
deu
mkd
guj
xho
lao
lug
guj
dan
kbd
bre
hun
pan
grn
ind
swe
kbd
est
roa-tara
vls
sin
cym
cos
pam
nrm
jbo
stq
tel
pfl
ind
nld
vls
map-bms
hun
fas
pus
mwl
bpy
orm
crh
tur
fur
oss
gla
tel
ile
orm
nld
ast
pag
csb
fra
arg
snd
swa
cor
urd
swe
rus
ckb
pan
div
oss
tcy
bho
nrm
fin
kin
oci
bul
bjn
ita
lim
hye
isl
est
afr
arg
est
afr
aze
spa
mal
hye
fra
isl
fin
lez
aze
ceb
mai
kom
be-tarask
dsb
snd
bpy
cdo
bxr
bxr
hun
ukr
bar
tet
kin
lug
sco
rue
mkd
tur
san
bel
tcy
mon
hin
ksh
ces
aym
ang
swa
ita
orm
che
sgs
jbo
rus
ltg
epo
pdc
gle
war
hif
khm
grn
fao
vls
lez
arg
afr
spa
che
lat
fao
pan
csb
jbo
nds-nl
khm
nap
nob
mon
rus
cym
uig
bjn
urd
gag
pcd
ile
snd
mlt
cym
ava
egl
tel
roh
asm
gle
tet
oci
fin
est
nno
nso
ace
nap
krc
pdc
khm
que
lat
hif
orm
kom
arg
bel
por
fra
kin
pcd
glg
ksh
orm
egl
lad
roh
snd
tsn
eng
yid
egl
vol
ksh
jbo
cor
slv
tha
deu
tgl
bcl
ibo
ukr
nds
ksh
swa
tur
nrm
afr
lad
cym
vls
tsn
bul
ckb
fas
fin
ita
srp
oci
ast
tcy
tcy
bod
ace
ace
tcy
min
bxr
kom
roa-tara
lit
glk
bpy
sgs
tyv
pag
epo
che
ast
yid
ukr
pcd
bcl
zea
krc
eus
glv
hif
bcl
swe
tcy
mya
hif
fao
pol
rue
vol
bre
ext
cor
nep
mal
hsb
srd
spa
nap
fas
glv
lao
cdo
pol
slv
mhr
eng
gle
vep
pus
roh
hye
map-bms
kat
eus
gle
mdf
div
spa
ell
glv
ltg
vep
fas
sme
crh
tel
msa
war
mkd
glv
udm
fra
deu
pus
kaz
xmf
san
cdo
bel
ile
orm
tur
nan
tgl
hin
slv
mai
kom
guj
isl
ina
ltg
slv
bar
nld
ckb
aze
fra
spa
mlt
swe
vie
ron
ast
ibo
hak
tyv
afr
tgl
roh
kin
ell
roa-tara
xho
jav
gla
hak
bul
eus
vie
ina
ltg
krc
rue
ukr
vls
sgs
guj
slv
nrm
slk
tet
nep
nld
mlt
mwl
als
fas
fra
ces
vie
nap
urd
nrm
sme
nep
cat
vls
lat
rus
koi
gag
tat
fry
srn
glg
asm
cos
nav
fry
be-tarask
egl
tgl
hat
oss
ckb
nld
lim
war
cdo
div
aym
sqi
hrv
fry
pus
gag
oci
kor
mar
be-tarask
jav
afr
kom
bcl
vie
urd
que
spa
div
kan
epo
glg
lit
arg
tel
nld
sme
lug
kin
nso
bar
slk
cos
nrm
que
cdo
hsb
hbs
kbd
pus
pag
ile
tha
nrm
nan
che
frp
war
msa
glk
pcd
yid
ext
mri
tyv
pus
mlt
ang
gla
fao
ckb
hun
khm
gag
eus
isl
glg
amh
cym
mri
roh
swa
fry
glg
cdo
deu
xho
orm
que
srp
ckb
deu
nld
bar
olo
afr
tcy
cos
hin
uig
swa
pan
ang
pcd
glv
ava
nds
stq
jbo
sco
map-bms
cat
sqi
myv
kaz
sqi
lin
lad
new
bod
san
fin
pol
roh
kaz
min
fry
dsb
arg
bjn
sgs
lug
eus
sme
che
fra
kor
ukr
bel
nds
mal
nso
arg
hin
ces
egl
ext
nso
map-bms
bho
roa-tara
mdf
pol
bcl
deu
lad
aze
deu
xmf
dty
hat
guj
guj
div
que
hye
ces
gag
udm
ara
que
xmf
mlt
mon
sco
cos
xmf
grn
kat
ita
srp
stq
tha
pag
ton
xho
oci
mal
mhr
tur
khm
roh
rue
fra
bxr
cym
pag
tel
pap
lmo
fao
sna
ron
roa-tara
pap
csb
map-bms
ceb
cos
glk
tet
egl
mlg
new
olo
lat
che
est
por
srn
aze
amh
kom
ita
ckb
kat
ind
mwl
mhr
por
roa-tara
bul
oci
aze
nep
mon
bho
kom
pan
epo
ell
pan
aze
krc
olo
slv
lug
pan
be-tarask
pnb
rue
fas
bpy
yid
kin
als
nno
srd
tcy
egl
hun
mlg
bpy
por
sna
tet
rue
fry
uig
guj
bod
ind
min
hif
fas
rus
eus
myv
pdc
xmf
swa
fry
pap
isl
sna
nno
ace
nob
pan
ell
ces
lit
nob
nob
oci
egl
hbs
hye
sme
msa
orm
als
mhr
dsb
tha
yid
lin
ces
kan
lit
tur
dty
cat
nrm
xmf
tat
frp
cat
nob
nap
fao
ton
mlg
mar
hin
pan
vep
bpy
ckb
swe
pan
fin
lad
che
cym
epo
hin
pam
isl
ces
jpn
roa-tara
uig
new
scn
epo
sme
srn
ton
vep
ibo
bul
lad
nap
sin
mya
tur
srn
ind
nds
sqi
cbk
bar
cat
ace
glv
ile
tyv
khm
lez
orm
bho
kbd
lim
ell
mkd
epo
slv
lim
hif
che
ita
swe
csb
lug
aym
rup
aze
ltg
bcl
gla
bxr
jbo
hsb
be-tarask
bcl
tet
glk
tha
fra
srn
hin
ile
cym
lrc
lug
ava
hsb
uig
bel
roa-tara
pol
nan
vep
gle
tcy
sna
cym
nrm
khm
dsb
ext
tsn
hye
crh
nds
sme
myv
isl
nso
ron
als
snd
ton
sme
ast
glk
ind
por
tet
sme
ukr
swe
lmo
tsn
lao
sin
lao
ext
scn
bpy
hat
por
por
oss
mhr
gle
pol
ind
vls
lmo
spa
lit
ell
ibo
roh
mya
vls
sgs
tet
srd
hif
uig
ext
sgs
ast
kan
cor
frp
myv
lim
tet
msa
hun
scn
glk
bre
swa
fas
est
zea
afr
ext
mwl
nds-nl
pus
ind
wln
olo
nap
tat
udm
lmo
slk
kan
nds
glv
lin
vie
lao
sme
war
spa
sin
crh
xmf
hbs
sgs
csb
afr
ibo
pnb
nav
fra
map-bms
ibo
bpy
mlt
pus
tet
rus
xho
hif
ext
gle
mar
yid
srd
olo
vls
mhr
pol
olo
bjn
xho
vls
bul
kan
tsn
als
vol
mai
bpy
pfl
msa
sme
koi
snd
urd
ron
ton
bod
pag
pcd
grn
ext
aze
hbs
glv
als
mri
roh
nds-nl
sgs
pnb
lao
egl
bcl
vls
sna
bjn
cdo
dan
ell
ace
ksh
pag
msa
rus
amh
lug
ltg
tyv
rue
hin
mai
bpy
pdc
arg
fao
lao
jbo
san
cdo
slv
frp
ukr
nan
mhr
yid
nso
glg
mdf
urd
ace
bxr
xho
rup
gle
lmo
cor
bho
msa
hsb
epo
div
crh
pnb
mal
fry
amh
bpy
slv
zea
asm
lmo
fao
be-tarask
bel
lmo
bar
nav
pam
lug
min
aym
guj
ron
bpy
tgl
mlt
epo
sco
dan
ceb
tha
tyv
mkd
oss
pnb
eus
mlt
csb
stq
nld
kbd
khm
pol
roa-tara
uig
amh
bod
fas
sme
tcy
tat
lat
rup
hak
crh
jbo
ext
swa
urd
orm
rup
bxr
asm
nso
yid
csb
afr
sco
eus
est
ces
dan
msa
ton
ltg
srp
nap
hun
vep
wln
map-bms
eus
hrv
ces
scn
ell
be-tarask
mkd
san
cor
bcl
san
jpn
vol
glv
ori
hak
roa-tara
srn
war
crh
srd
guj
bjn
bre
tcy
ibo
pam
che
olo
msa
bcl
rue
tur
nap
sin
por
ace
lao
por
olo
pdc
ckb
guj
sin
hsb
tur
bar
san
ckb
que
nep
tam
urd
san
fao
swe
nep
nds
hun
pfl
mon
jbo
dsb
ori
pap
jbo
war
oss
lav
lez
pap
slv
pam
ara
bul
lat
bpy
lad
pam
hat
pap
tgl
tet
ext
kat
kan
udm
oci
ceb
vie
mdf
krc
nno
nno
pfl
ina
jav
bel
pnb
bre
vie
sco
fas
pan
kom
hsb
lmo
egl
be-tarask
slk
lim
cbk
pol
hak
bre
bel
sna
gag
ace
fry
mya
kor
tyv
eus
grn
lim
gle
sin
mkd
fas
lez
pag
sna
myv
glv
lav
bjn
slk
be-tarask
nds
ace
kan
nav
nno
ori
glv
hun
hsb
san
cdo
pol
swe
pol
kor
be-tarask
swa
isl
mya
sco
que
olo
swe
tel
hye
roh
udm
glv
dan
jpn
arg
ces
glv
pnb
jbo
roh
fry
nds-nl
nan
tel
pan
slk
nds-nl
mkd
nrm
pfl
dan
vep
ibo
que
mya
eus
new
pnb
fas
ara
bod
be-tarask
mkd
sgs
ton
nrm
isl
bpy
swe
pus
mai
bcl
jpn
slv
hun
cym
map-bms
lez
hye
orm
mar
nds-nl
bpy
ind
ile
cbk
gag
aze
egl
ind
roa-tara
ace
aze
eng
pfl
oci
hin
stq
ita
xmf
ceb
tet
kat
swa
srp
kan
be-tarask
khm
lim
pfl
tel
ast
fas
gag
ceb
ava
mlg
hif
rus
nrm
oss
tam
lez
pan
pap
hbs
kin
be-tarask
vep
aym
sgs
nno
ell
mya
mlt
map-bms
lao
amh
ukr
lug
kbd
slk
lav
ace
cbk
mri
lez
xmf
eng
xmf
nob
nrm
mon
tsn
pap
tgl
xho
ara
bho
mlg
oss
pol
urd
stq
krc
kin
gle
tyv
ron
wln
vep
ina
kor
pfl
fin
jav
rup
olo
cos
bxr
nep
vol
amh
dty
ara
als
lit
ksh
ind
csb
snd
gle
isl
gag
cbk
vie
krc
als
krc
nno
grn
bho
war
slk
est
tur
san
fra
ava
myv
fas
ces
swa
div
ina
ltg
mai
tcy
bpy
nep
ile
pap
ara
koi
mri
lin
dsb
fin
nds-nl
mri
sme
sin
rup
new
lim
mlt
mlt
lao
pam
ukr
bul
mkd
lin
lit
nld
ori
nld
nob
mon
wln
nrm
nno
bcl
scn
hrv
aym
mon
glk
hrv
nav
orm
que
hsb
msa
deu
kaz
msa
min
epo
pag
grn
por
ext
aym
pus
que
mhr
bul
srn
hif
nap
lmo
san
rus
ron
epo
bel
tgl
aze
krc
oci
sco
div
koi
bcl
scn
ori
kbd
wln
ckb
udm
ton
xmf
hbs
srd
pam
ceb
cat
frp
por
isl
jav
glk
ava
mri
ell
arg
que
bre
isl
ibo
mon
vep
tat
lav
cdo
aym
msa
mon
pol
pdc
bho
ind
cor
mar
lad
deu
pfl
aym
ces
nob
ltg
mai
cym
ind
scn
grn
gla
mon
frp
swa
xmf
mon
lav
ext
fra
roa-tara
wln
mwl
bjn
lat
guj
sgs
jav
vep
epo
pdc
jbo
lit
vls
zea
slv
swe
gag
msa
div
ace
map-bms
tur
csb
mri
aze
zea
csb
sin
scn
eus
bar
srp
pdc
jpn
egl
roh
olo
mon
bre
que
lao
lez
pol
san
pdc
be-tarask
nso
map-bms
crh
lin
guj
bho
lmo
snd
asm
lmo
ceb
aym
dsb
new
fry
hye
als
sco
lit
fra
ita
che
nap
rup
bcl
srp
lad
egl
ltg
hbs
tet
lim
snd
bxr
fas
tet
bxr
olo
glv
udm
bho
grn
pfl
min
tam
mwl
khm
cos
deu
aze
cdo
ara
ind
hak
koi
afr
mya
pag
mon
hat
hrv
udm
ceb
hak
pag
bpy
hat
nob
gla
lav
nds
oci
san
arg
lav
nav
oci
kor
bxr
hun
tsn
uig
sqi
div
zea
slk
xmf
scn
bho
ang
epo
mai
kan
nep
kin
dsb
ara
ext
rus
cbk
lav
tha
ina
lat
mlt
hak
lit
mlg
ksh
roa-tara
fra
als
mhr
scn
nan
srd
glg
aze
est
map-bms
cos
mlt
tcy
fas
tam
kan
pol
tam
kat
scn
fra
asm
spa
tcy
cos
be-tarask
ava
mal
hif
eus
msa
lao
grn
ksh
bel
amh
hsb
tha
mhr
zea
pus
ava
oci
swa
sme
lim
nds-nl
lao
mya
vol
new
div
min
mlg
zea
tur
mri
tur
sin
nso
mri
cbk
slk
hbs
cym
pol
rus
hbs
ceb
nap
kbd
srd
roh
bre
sin
xmf
krc
hsb
sco
bod
egl
fra
est
lmo
kor
mlg
kaz
oss
tat
nno
bcl
cos
asm
isl
glv
myv
lad
tam
nno
ina
mlg
fry
nds
bho
bul
eus
wln
srn
min
bcl
tyv
ita
eus
vol
tgl
urd
eus
guj
rue
map-bms
pap
fao
hsb
hif
lao
tgl
ile
ces
ell
cym
nep
mon
nno
lav
bcl
rue
ina
lim
olo
sco
nob
mlg
ina
amh
gla
new
fra
fra
rus
lad
vie
isl
scn
hsb
kbd
oci
bho
jbo
asm
kor
por
ron
uig
tet
mhr
que
cbk
lao
hif
pap
sin
hif
hif
hrv
rue
uig
jpn
fao
tgl
bar
dsb
glk
bel
hsb
nld
mon
rup
lug
uig
ksh
ron
pus
ceb
mya
nrm
pag
ori
grn
nld
pol
urd
mai
aze
kaz
amh
lrc
cym
ace
zea
nav
vep
nan
lao
srn
kaz
pdc
mri
kat
fas
sme
tsn
mhr
als
cat
swa
ell
fin
vls
nds-nl
fin
mlt
rup
bre
kor
swe
tur
tgl
krc
mri
arg
nep
amh
kan
egl
lmo
tur
vep
nso
ell
fur
vie
zea
sqi
roa-tara
pnb
eus
tur
pfl
frp
arg
ina
bre
spa
gla
hif
hif
tcy
ava
csb
bel
bxr
fao
vol
gla
sin
ibo
bho
lim
vep
afr
nds-nl
kbd
div
san
xho
mya
div
glv
cat
egl
map-bms
grn
cbk
ina
mya
cor
xho
roa-tara
lug
ast
fao
hrv
crh
kbd
arg
war
sqi
roh
kin
ell
ell
lad
kom
ina
xmf
swe
frp
crh
ibo
rue
tgl
pnb
dsb
khm
deu
lin
lmo
stq
mlg
mai
lim
glv
tha
mhr
vep
bre
aze
koi
krc
mkd
xmf
msa
oss
kbd
mar
udm
sqi
srp
ron
ast
guj
amh
xmf
lez
bul
ava
nan
gla
pcd
aym
ell
mal
hun
olo
cos
cat
xmf
vie
hif
mdf
koi
crh
nds
bul
kbd
hat
grn
ltg
aym
roh
tam
crh
ceb
bcl
tel
ces
che
tel
tha
pan
udm
mal
bho
ces
swa
tgl
xho
ron
yid
nrm
hin
sin
mai
ron
zea
lim
bod
roa-tara
krc
mdf
tsn
yid
hak
pcd
stq
grn
wln
lad
bar
bod
nds-nl
ori
srn
roh
sco
hrv
bar
tel
lav
cos
lmo
glk
tel
glk
rue
fur
kaz
xmf
gle
ita
ibo
myv
sna
ile
ext
vol
cym
nno
krc
nds
oci
ron
lez
bod
gle
ori
jpn
csb
ceb
fra
nav
ang
tsn
tur
est
tyv
hbs
pap
mal
ast
pnb
glv
slv
kaz
ace
bpy
oci
jbo
mlt
vol
afr
ile
tet
slv
bcl
min
ast
hat
lmo
mal
mal
hin
glk
tel
mri
mkd
rup
bcl
lim
sme
rup
vls
lez
sco
nan
glg
tam
pcd
che
pnb
spa
vol
lat
uig
sco
be-tarask
aze
nds
ace
pag
pcd
aym
ace
war
lrc
als
be-tarask
hat
cbk
mdf
vls
msa
hif
mhr
map-bms
koi
pam
pap
crh
jav
xho
gla
yid
nno
gag
pam
lrc
mlt
kin
hin
frp
nld
krc
koi
isl
bul
bul
nav
slv
ces
khm
pan
new
khm
dan
tyv
hbs
mhr
ron
kor
gle
ces
new
grn
mwl
epo
gag
ron
mai
bjn
fur
jbo
fry
pan
deu
pfl
bre
csb
mal
che
msa
hye
asm
gag
hak
orm
est
vls
asm
olo
mwl
ces
slv
fra
stq
ceb
ceb
tha
tat
nrm
srd
srn
cym
sco
spa
lrc
snd
stq
lin
aze
srd
cat
kat
bar
ell
rus
wln
tam
bxr
nds-nl
mai
oci
sin
kor
mar
grn
arg
vep
kbd
hbs
ron
tet
ksh
xmf
sqi
bod
nan
ell
pag
ile
jpn
fao
kom
tgl
ceb
scn
nno
bod
dan
ell
nav
hsb
yid
swa
kin
glg
ita
pnb
lad
lmo
msa
nds-nl
mya
ibo
tsn
lad
hbs
min
afr
ell
fry
nav
tam
lao
oss
xho
bpy
xmf
nan
glv
nan
zea
nav
ell
lin
xmf
ces
lit
ace
bel
be-tarask
pag
hye
udm
ksh
lez
arg
hrv
lit
guj
nap
mhr
kin
yid
nds
roh
fur
ara
ukr
tet
ltg
isl
pag
pan
olo
new
fao
eng
msa
asm
bel
urd
bho
glg
olo
tsn
lad
ksh
hak
lim
dan
slk
tyv
cat
kbd
sqi
hif
tha
crh
lat
lmo
kin
urd
vol
vls
fao
ile
pag
lad
dan
bar
mar
vep
ind
kin
fra
map-bms
pol
bho
glg
frp
spa
bpy
mdf
ext
zea
lat
arg
fao
orm
rup
cat
eng
kor
epo
scn
xmf
nap
koi
kin
lin
sin
mai
srn
khm
tcy
pan
dsb
aym
srp
isl
tha
ast
nds
epo
snd
srp
cym
mal
eus
hat
ukr
olo
hsb
mkd
oci
pan
uig
glg
rup
sin
roa-tara
oss
lin
bho
kom
msa
bod
fas
ron
mdf
lim
snd
cor
rue
pap
ltg
fao
ori
lav
lat
cos
hsb
ang
mlg
oci
tha
mai
rus
mai
por
ibo
ina
nep
lmo
dsb
cbk
oci
hbs
grn
pam
jav
nob
min
pnb
jpn
roh
bre
vep
tat
que
sco
msa
tcy
pam
rus
ind
bel
ton
srp
hrv
bul
por
ron
ukr
pag
nav
jav
bpy
dty
fao
mkd
myv
que
cor
pfl
slk
dsb
hak
eng
nob
nno
nds
swe
sme
san
slk
kat
ces
mai
gla
por
ceb
fao
map-bms
ksh
mwl
mlg
eus
ell
est
sco
bpy
lit
dty
rue
uig
arg
egl
tam
rue
mwl
arg
nso
fas
swe
pfl
rus
tet
amh
amh
hat
zea
tat
stq
lmo
kin
fry
ace
hak
mya
be-tarask
lat
nds
tat
hrv
bpy
jbo
cdo
ang
egl
dsb
san
mai
tam
mlg
kaz
gla
asm
msa
mal
new
afr
roa-tara
ast
min
dan
pus
amh
ava
tsn
lat
tsn
hun
grn
nrm
egl
urd
cat
mkd
ksh
bod
hrv
mar
krc
ace
yid
ukr
map-bms
pnb
nds
min
kbd
lim
fry
mhr
bcl
gle
map-bms
bre
hrv
tam
nav
spa
por
kor
oci
pdc
hif
ton
gle
tcy
nds
snd
pfl
mdf
kom
bpy
mai
vls
ces
glk
zea
map-bms
myv
hrv
olo
que
san
lim
xmf
oci
oss
nrm
tha
egl
hif
ksh
tsn
ton
lit
cat
mri
pfl
scn
bcl
mai
sme
ile
ron
lim
ukr
nrm
eng
div
mdf
ast
lrc
dan
afr
yid
div
cbk
map-bms
ibo
hat
mon
lmo
hin
pag
que
zea
sna
bxr
fra
lad
bod
vol
koi
aze
cos
glk
ori
tur
bcl
eng
mlg
rus
bel
hin
bod
min
oci
pam
mkd
crh
crh
pag
cor
epo
nso
slv
ton
mon
grn
mlg
san
hif
pus
bho
tyv
glk
ara
nob
sgs
bre
lrc
ton
xmf
lav
ext
nds
nds
glg
tat
ile
cbk
ces
jbo
tha
tur
hsb
cor
jpn
roh
pol
kaz
stq
nep
afr
mwl
isl
amh
mya
new
orm
nep
hrv
fas
aym
ara
san
csb
dsb
cat
csb
koi
tyv
mal
aym
asm
dan
nno
bre
jav
pol
sco
fry
grn
ckb
slv
lrc
mlt
mhr
hrv
lmo
est
mar
glv
isl
vie
ita
ace
kbd
jav
ukr
ina
que
ava
tet
snd
pan
lao
bpy
guj
ksh
pus
gla
srd
pam
fao
dty
fra
mwl
bul
tam
roh
arg
mon
bcl
pan
lez
ltg
stq
ces
scn
lez
isl
ell
mon
tgl
ceb
rue
hak
pnb
rup
pus
zea
lad
lug
nno
lrc
jbo
mwl
sin
wln
pag
nob
nno
min
hrv
aze
por
dsb
lat
mon
xho
mal
yid
bho
grn
arg
cym
por
kan
udm
ceb
lao
tur
rue
krc
pcd
tcy
ace
bre
cbk
nob
msa
dan
urd
vep
pfl
ava
nso
lit
hak
cbk
spa
kor
que
bxr
mya
vep
scn
dsb
bcl
csb
fao
nav
lit
epo
nso
grn
yid
nld
kin
tet
ina
fas
pap
hat
dan
tcy
lrc
ukr
egl
lim
ina
glg
cbk
cat
lmo
bjn
cor
fra
swe
tcy
lmo
swa
cbk
eus
kaz
rue
egl
slv
koi
oci
ile
jpn
ron
arg
asm
nso
slv
frp
tam
hye
nan
jpn
kaz
lug
aze
be-tarask
sme
tcy
hun
mar
vie
nld
nld
est
srd
rup
bel
amh
lmo
ara
myv
ita
roh
nso
roh
ori
ckb
xho
swe
ukr
jpn
cdo
mlt
mri
krc
nap
mon
hrv
uig
jav
als
cdo
srn
ukr
mri
mar
lav
mhr
krc
kor
gla
tur
bul
lez
rue
kor
spa
fry
lao
oci
lez
ell
glg
isl
min
hif
rus
snd
vls
vie
mri
hif
ces
nds
map-bms
bxr
tgl
fas
bxr
kbd
pap
gla
xho
lit
yid
mar
nan
pus
mdf
khm
mya
vie
nav
fry
san
lim
nan
mkd
lat
khm
wln
hat
tha
xmf
est
srn
que
amh
jav
guj
myv
kaz
udm
lim
san
mhr
sgs
lug
div
glk
glv
dty
mar
nob
mri
vep
cor
nob
yid
eng
pan
jbo
ina
min
lin
vie
sgs
tcy
jbo
koi
glk
ext
tgl
crh
pap
nav
dty
ast
pnb
srp
kan
que
tcy
lad
sin
mal
nds
hsb
hrv
pam
lin
ita
fas
nds-nl
ron
fry
wln
che
ksh
war
ltg
hrv
wln
pdc
egl
srp
wln
tel
bjn
fry
gag
xmf
cdo
ksh
war
map-bms
pap
lao
div
tat
kan
fin
swa
ton
tcy
sgs
hrv
roh
pdc
nds-nl
mhr
kat
slk
krc
pol
frp
koi
ext
pol
ckb
wln
orm
ron
ksh
pam
xmf
che
ell
guj
bod
bjn
aym
nap
hrv
lin
tam
hrv
dan
mhr
fas
pam
yid
tat
yid
tha
sgs
aze
bul
ces
gag
ukr
roa-tara
epo
mhr
mai
tcy
kaz
pdc
mar
krc
kom
kom
nrm
hif
sgs
ile
eus
slk
cor
gag
fry
stq
nds
srd
nno
kaz
slk
mya
nno
por
lao
glk
xmf
xmf
pag
bel
hbs
bre
ceb
eng
kat
pnb
lim
fas
mwl
ang
bxr
mar
mal
bar
roa-tara
cdo
cym
pnb
hye
aze
div
als
ltg
lug
isl
isl
ind
mdf
rup
nds-nl
ace
nld
krc
vie
lim
mya
slv
isl
bel
egl
egl
mai
als
srd
gag
ukr
jbo
rue
oss
rus
glk
tat
bul
rus
tyv
be-tarask
glv
mwl
hin
nno
ltg
ast
gla
eus
lim
pap
glk
stq
mhr
rup
hak
stq
ace
lin
fry
roa-tara
ext
ava
snd
asm
div
sna
srp
hak
ina
bar
eng
hye
mdf
bod
gle
xho
bre
snd
hbs
eng
pdc
hin
fas
tur
pag
scn
arg
cat
kom
kom
tsn
nno
hrv
war
pam
ava
eus
hak
uig
zea
kat
fry
fas
pol
lat
olo
ukr
csb
ceb
glg
uig
hrv
gla
srn
nld
sgs
asm
mya
epo
san
war
bel
amh
kan
krc
mlt
nep
ace
hsb
nep
als
mai
ita
mai
san
hrv
srp
mdf
glv
new
ron
udm
rus
uig
zea
aze
tsn
min
als
pdc
ace
be-tarask
lin
lim
nan
nds-nl
pag
nds
pam
san
nep
tha
aym
mal
guj
mon
lat
vls
rus
hrv
pag
ukr
mon
pdc
bel
msa
ckb
be-tarask
lat
min
kin
mya
est
pol
fur
bre
jpn
que
swe
kaz
war
san
ron
srd
hye
ava
mlt
cat
lao
nds-nl
hye
bar
bpy
bre
bjn
hbs
bul
roh
est
div
olo
mlt
nap
mar
scn
ang
egl
hsb
mkd
khm
hrv
que
min
nav
dsb
cym
bxr
hun
vep
lao
ton
egl
fin
sco
krc
map-bms
ksh
vol
slk
cbk
crh
hin
pdc
mar
bho
tat
tgl
swa
nap
mar
pfl
yid
bul
mhr
dty
ext
cym
cat
cym
mon
nav
hat
dan
vep
uig
mal
mdf
myv
scn
bel
olo
tet
pus
bpy
bpy
swa
oci
cbk
udm
lin
glv
udm
lin
ita
ori
wln
nap
vls
hun
hbs
nrm
bpy
kin
tur
rup
bjn
eng
amh
nds
ext
cdo
krc
vie
nrm
sna
pus
orm
che
mai
snd
lrc
msa
mon
xho
lmo
bod
hif
nap
cdo
est
cym
vep
mlg
mdf
hak
ltg
hsb
jpn
vls
guj
min
min
hrv
mwl
pam
kbd
xmf
glv
ibo
jpn
min
sna
pam
bcl
mar
deu
dsb
ast
nob
ext
war
cbk
kor
vep
spa
spa
vol
mon
kom
wln
nso
map-bms
xho
gag
crh
vol
isl
mlg
cat
ton
bho
fao
sco
tel
nap
new
est
fur
lrc
bpy
mlt
guj
pfl
tyv
ara
bpy
nep
ind
als
lmo
amh
khm
hif
rue
deu
cbk
slv
bxr
swe
hun
ind
lao
pag
lin
hun
roh
mdf
lug
hak
roh
pol
ext
glg
afr
hsb
sin
ita
gle
egl
cos
olo
gle
kan
fas
khm
new
tam
jav
myv
nav
nep
spa
ibo
asm
bxr
tat
lim
hbs
ell
tel
gle
be-tarask
krc
lao
kor
khm
dsb
mwl
tha
ron
uig
ava
rus
nob
lao
ace
tyv
cbk
dty
bpy
mal
slk
ace
glv
gla
lez
kin
grn
cdo
epo
fas
pus
ace
roa-tara
lez
hsb
tcy
ind
por
slk
kom
div
est
lit
tet
ext
new
isl
ltg
pcd
fao
kaz
ita
est
ukr
que
ltg
ltg
ukr
swa
lad
tel
cbk
mhr
dsb
fin
pol
sqi
tgl
war
dty
lmo
mlg
lav
deu
nan
dsb
krc
mya
est
lav
lat
lad
jbo
vol
slk
cat
new
pus
uig
hak
bxr
mdf
xho
ind
rus
mai
tat
tel
glv
est
pam
kaz
pus
kor
nob
lat
ltg
nav
nap
xho
koi
sna
glg
swe
mar
pnb
gag
gle
por
san
nds-nl
bcl
deu
que
ell
vep
cor
dty
gag
koi
lao
mai
jbo
fra
pag
ace
war
swe
kan
nso
dsb
ces
sco
ton
nld
bul
sco
isl
als
mar
nan
swe
lmo
ton
mya
sqi
que
swe
nld
stq
fra
nds
tcy
bpy
ceb
roa-tara
tyv
sin
map-bms
ind
glg
ori
udm
roh
guj
fao
myv
glv
slv
urd
fur
afr
vol
egl
nld
mlt
msa
lav
frp
tgl
dsb
bod
war
che
mon
slv
ang
bxr
amh
nrm
mlg
crh
wln
glg
yid
pnb
slv
xmf
eus
tat
deu
ces
pfl
est
ces
che
nds-nl
mal
mwl
nep
olo
tha
kin
vep
hif
nds-nl
nno
hsb
bel
ton
kbd
vol
mya
que
ina
hak
ckb
bho
ton
lmo
gag
be-tarask
kin
cor
bar
pol
swe
amh
tha
rue
nap
div
mdf
dan
egl
kbd
new
fra
lat
hif
myv
mhr
sco
div
war
hat
spa
kbd
nav
mal
nno
tha
pcd
bxr
lim
bar
orm
aym
ile
wln
sgs
lin
eus
frp
mar
pfl
cdo
msa
dty
hat
kor
oss
cat
kat
mar
eus
xmf
deu
ava
vep
ton
che
kbd
xmf
nrm
egl
est
als
tat
mlt
aym
san
gla
kat
kat
frp
tam
jpn
be-tarask
mya
yid
rus
tam
msa
stq
glk
sco
ind
bxr
kbd
mlt
bre
nep
nno
fin
eus
mya
rup
mri
dsb
vie
mhr
kan
lim
cbk
srp
orm
sna
deu
ron
asm
cym
ind
glv
est
ton
ext
pap
be-tarask
san
csb
nso
cdo
oci
pam
pag
lim
sqi
lat
xmf
olo
jav
afr
tcy
srn
asm
deu
stq
pnb
fao
ron
rue
nav
krc
ori
uig
nob
div
be-tarask
egl
glv
nav
krc
nap
che
mar
hat
lug
pnb
ina
tam
dsb
mdf
fas
bod
vls
deu
swa
cat
ind
orm
hat
roh
ukr
rus
swa
deu
uig
div
tam
tel
est
tam
bel
gla
krc
roa-tara
srd
gla
fin
tsn
kor
tel
pam
nno
cor
ava
rup
tat
ibo
lit
lez
tur
tam
lmo
slv
ltg
pus
swe
csb
be-tarask
fra
ibo
lin
dty
deu
nap
aym
afr
zea
ang
uig
mri
udm
nld
gla
tur
nav
mon
pol
sna
epo
lrc
eng
kin
sco
ell
ita
vep
slk
vls
bxr
uig
csb
lim
roh
nob
lim
lmo
oss
nep
new
oss
lez
msa
ces
tet
nob
mai
xho
fur
ile
pap
ang
oci
ori
che
kat
mai
lrc
ukr
xmf
hin
guj
epo
mai
cdo
est
aym
msa
slv
crh
mwl
dsb
new
msa
sna
sqi
lav
amh
ace
nob
grn
tsn
stq
jpn
mal
afr
uig
eus
pdc
zea
vep
eng
ext
sna
myv
lim
msa
scn
zea
ang
bre
por
wln
ace
mdf
dan
nso
stq
bjn
hye
asm
urd
bjn
tha
hsb
lat
ces
tsn
ksh
bxr
jpn
dty
bod
por
srp
dsb
myv
que
fur
cat
swa
ita
rus
epo
hsb
que
xho
rup
fur
rus
cor
tam
amh
gle
ron
epo
por
est
sme
que
mya
est
dty
bul
map-bms
min
map-bms
cat
vol
grn
koi
hat
udm
kan
cos
ukr
hye
stq
nso
ind
amh
cym
tur
hak
hak
be-tarask
snd
vls
dsb
krc
lit
nso
gle
lin
deu
srd
srd
nav
mya
rus
wln
pus
san
rus
ton
mwl
srd
ibo
nds
vep
kin
mal
san
ita
hye
sna
aym
srp
nan
nav
nld
pcd
new
nep
tsn
scn
ile
oci
srd
mai
kor
roa-tara
eng
cor
cor
ron
epo
cdo
mdf
fra
tcy
bjn
ron
nan
tam
roa-tara
jbo
scn
bar
bre
div
mar
lez
san
lrc
glg
frp
asm
hsb
hsb
rue
lin
cos
crh
jbo
eus
ton
kom
vep
fry
pam
glk
fur
isl
hat
gla
pus
cbk
udm
gag
ori
nno
nob
dsb
mlg
mlg
lug
nav
nap
ava
sqi
zea
mhr
pan
nob
ces
slv
ava
tsn
fao
xmf
nds-nl
hun
tha
nds-nl
fry
tel
slv
afr
bod
kaz
ast
dan
bel
gag
xmf
ceb
est
mwl
lav
nds-nl
nav
mlg
srd
ast
cbk
glk
ace
mhr
uig
stq
pdc
bod
fry
ita
swa
cbk
est
dty
vie
hun
lug
lez
kom
fra
lat
rus
hif
ara
pap
snd
dty
pdc
lat
que
aym
mwl
glg
lmo
ace
frp
dan
nrm
map-bms
cdo
lin
bcl
nds-nl
glg
lit
amh
nds-nl
tur
dan
kom
min
por
hbs
ceb
min
nso
asm
pap
dty
ukr
tam
eus
rue
snd
pdc
bel
tet
mon
nav
tur
ast
olo
mkd
ces
hat
hrv
tgl
mkd
fao
vep
vep
fas
est
kan
mdf
fas
oss
tat
egl
mlt
ltg
cdo
pol
glv
vie
nep
nob
bod
kor
asm
mlt
fao
zea
lat
aym
epo
div
frp
fin
rus
hak
nap
pdc
por
mwl
nan
lmo
ksh
frp
hin
lez
dty
mhr
mri
egl
pam
ori
gla
nld
snd
tet
egl
deu
uig
mri
wln
kaz
nds
ton
nld
bho
lav
pcd
vls
pag
bar
oss
oci
kin
div
pdc
ces
tat
srn
lrc
lrc
vep
ces
stq
fin
ces
mri
lao
pap
rup
nep
swa
deu
csb
cor
ell
ast
dty
urd
fry
ang
xho
ext
roh
rup
ext
uig
oci
roa-tara
uig
ita
mai
bpy
isl
mkd
lez
mwl
wln
mlt
srd
pus
kor
wln
oss
deu
xho
sco
ava
pan
myv
yid
pfl
tel
lim
uig
eus
que
lad
asm
pus
frp
ibo
jpn
koi
spa
lrc
nds
lad
dty
bpy
sin
nrm
guj
vls
bul
ori
asm
ext
grn
ext
sme
be-tarask
arg
kaz
bxr
srp
afr
lav
olo
pdc
rue
gag
kom
min
swe
nrm
ava
pcd
glg
tel
ton
lad
tel
nob
crh
lao
sme
mdf
urd
gla
bjn
bod
bho
asm
pus
vep
wln
ile
roh
swa
glg
bel
tam
zea
egl
pcd
mlt
urd
oss
msa
est
dsb
lez
bar
nno
msa
eus
srd
nap
lug
glg
tyv
deu
krc
grn
vls
sna
zea
war
hun
tyv
olo
por
nso
kan
oci
csb
lad
fra
stq
swa
vie
lez
ron
mwl
nds-nl
fin
nan
mri
dan
nob
amh
grn
tha
ckb
fur
khm
vie
rus
vie
urd
ksh
yid
vls
kaz
bel
pan
pan
mhr
srn
fry
min
ext
srn
pdc
bel
ita
mon
nds
sgs
csb
hrv
ton
fin
map-bms
gag
ext
pol
myv
udm
pap
mkd
fur
pam
lao
lin
cdo
ltg
nso
bod
bar
pus
lrc
hye
lrc
rue
myv
bxr
msa
cos
mkd
hye
arg
sin
tat
ukr
pnb
mai
nep
hbs
mlg
mar
cbk
tsn
kan
tel
kor
udm
vls
bxr
spa
srp
eng
glk
vep
bar
snd
afr
kaz
khm
pus
mdf
wln
slv
lim
div
myv
glk
fas
mon
srd
pus
ina
war
nan
tgl
swe
bxr
yid
tam
tha
glv
mai
deu
san
tur
kin
kbd
arg
mal
vls
bjn
glk
bpy
vls
ava
nld
ita
zea
nan
hsb
asm
lav
lad
ita
pfl
dty
ltg
ext
mlg
vie
tel
aze
stq
lrc
bcl
lat
fur
cym
khm
msa
tam
mhr
roh
nds
swa
bcl
pdc
hin
srn
glk
sco
oss
csb
ton
mkd
udm
min
dty
bho
sna
ceb
ton
myv
srn
bod
hbs
swe
sme
aym
pan
ang
sin
lmo
aze
hun
xmf
srn
nan
glk
lim
deu
nap
nld
dan
rus
hin
new
wln
hak
ext
arg
spa
vep
srd
jpn
afr
tha
lao
lad
nap
est
tcy
crh
urd
fra
mkd
spa
sme
afr
bar
lav
slv
roa-tara
pan
sme
pus
jav
cym
pdc
lez
pan
jbo
tgl
xmf
kat
roh
ace
ang
hif
vol
slk
sqi
ind
ava
aze
ori
afr
mkd
msa
isl
cbk
kor
fao
hsb
aym
lao
be-tarask
ces
war
pol
map-bms
kom
ita
urd
cdo
srd
gle
ell
lez
war
tyv
nob
tet
hye
ell
glk
eng
glv
ces
rup
dan
bho
frp
ile
est
ace
bre
cym
yid
tel
jbo
egl
eus
ces
ara
pap
pam
sqi
mri
hun
sgs
nap
cdo
jpn
wln
lim
sin
tel
eng
orm
pag
tet
swe
olo
mlt
aym
gag
cor
hif
mya
map-bms
ina
gag
bjn
arg
kan
dty
cbk
bjn
lez
pnb
lit
gla
ast
ina
lrc
kin
lug
lao
deu
ltg
slk
bul
sin
cat
deu
spa
fao
zea
roh
pus
nep
ile
kom
vep
bre
cbk
glg
tel
ceb
mhr
mlg
kat
egl
vls
mal
srd
spa
ukr
ext
lat
csb
cym
lrc
que
scn
urd
pdc
lav
hrv
amh
hsb
roa-tara
hun
mkd
ind
jpn
tat
kan
ace
mar
pol
ori
ace
nno
yid
bxr
bho
che
sco
jav
sme
jpn
fin
dty
rup
bxr
pan
grn
lav
bel
hrv
bcl
tgl
sna
pan
glg
srp
fao
zea
hrv
sqi
oss
ton
bel
hin
ext
glg
epo
amh
pfl
nrm
ang
ace
jpn
vie
crh
olo
ibo
ava
lez
nno
bho
ace
cos
koi
glk
roa-tara
bod
tet
guj
lmo
slk
gle
stq
lim
lmo
bho
nep
ara
sqi
ava
msa
kaz
oss
slk
nan
spa
bxr
pap
sin
lrc
jav
swa
pag
lrc
uig
lug
tsn
lin
hsb
dty
bul
srp
tcy
hak
guj
roa-tara
mar
ara
ceb
oss
tsn
koi
kan
vol
ukr
pdc
ces
roh
koi
rue
hye
nob
pdc
ell
amh
lmo
lao
nno
rue
pcd
gag
eng
isl
lim
orm
eus
hun
tcy
rus
vep
pap
mhr
que
nno
nld
als
gle
kor
pus
urd
sqi
sgs
ita
aym
lim
san
mri
urd
glg
ara
hak
swe
div
slk
be-tarask
ori
srd
ton
jbo
kbd
stq
dan
hak
kor
sgs
nav
mhr
tel
srn
vie
ell
bcl
est
nds
ksh
lez
pdc
mon
mal
fry
ltg
ukr
arg
tet
be-tarask
cbk
nap
vol
glk
nob
ron
pnb
msa
dty
glg
mdf
ibo
dty
ces
rup
afr
nap
rue
roh
ron
bho
mal
ind
ina
urd
lit
che
dan
nds-nl
mdf
sna
ell
nap
pan
oci
bel
hin
fin
ita
udm
deu
yid
srn
aze
nds
ava
glk
olo
eus
nep
bpy
nob
bpy
mlt
egl
aze
ukr
ksh
mlt
gla
dty
tat
hsb
new
lim
frp
vep
nrm
jpn
vls
nso
nap
jav
bho
olo
div
jav
mon
dsb
lrc
be-tarask
scn
dan
pan
snd
deu
nav
lez
map-bms
bpy
mkd
xmf
khm
pfl
gla
glv
cym
bho
ext
crh
nso
hun
nld
rue
pfl
hak
vol
hat
bar
vol
msa
fao
lad
olo
fry
fra
krc
tsn
fao
nso
guj
mhr
pam
roa-tara
nrm
grn
myv
be-tarask
dty
isl
glv
mai
kom
aze
tur
bjn
ell
kin
bod
amh
mwl
ina
bar
cor
ceb
fur
bjn
nrm
pam
war
mhr
pdc
sin
nds
uig
glk
mwl
bel
ang
mkd
tha
sin
egl
swe
srd
khm
lin
cbk
be-tarask
tha
nan
tyv
vls
sqi
ina
tur
grn
pol
cat
jav
asm
lat
kat
slk
oci
tsn
tel
ace
bel
ron
nds
fur
ext
jbo
cor
slk
eus
isl
stq
rus
vie
mhr
amh
new
bho
hun
fas
lao
scn
tur
cym
pam
bho
cos
bel
tcy
kaz
gla
orm
new
lrc
arg
srd
map-bms
cos
mdf
ukr
roh
egl
ang
deu
csb
sqi
kan
ukr
div
be-tarask
ava
tet
lat
bxr
epo
srn
hak
ces
lim
aym
min
lad
ceb
sgs
bre
glk
stq
nan
jpn
roh
glk
epo
mlt
tha
glv
pcd
epo
ltg
dsb
pus
snd
xho
hak
hak
frp
new
rue
fas
glk
eus
dan
egl
jpn
mlg
div
kin
epo
als
swa
asm
srn
tur
jbo
arg
slk
lin
est
nds
ext
lit
krc
cbk
map-bms
gla
arg
ace
glv
lug
frp
bod
sgs
msa
aym
myv
pan
kom
amh
msa
nap
isl
che
ast
pag
nap
pdc
ile
nap
tha
ton
div
tet
nep
srd
afr
hat
ind
xmf
glg
hif
lao
ceb
ukr
hak
cdo
bul
nob
glk
lav
scn
pap
spa
mal
min
hye
gle
vls
bod
dsb
lmo
kor
als
roa-tara
kbd
csb
slv
zea
fao
lmo
mlg
nob
pdc
ltg
slv
div
ind
glv
myv
cos
egl
hif
bcl
tam
zea
wln
pus
bcl
lez
ina
koi
kor
mkd
ton
ile
pnb
aze
frp
scn
rue
tsn
mri
ron
khm
mar
mlg
uig
sqi
bar
lao
tet
bel
pfl
ksh
afr
epo
lit
myv
zea
nno
ckb
als
xmf
snd
lav
wln
crh
cor
ibo
vls
mlg
tyv
ext
new
gla
amh
jav
dan
khm
mar
vie
bul
hsb
fry
fur
sqi
wln
lad
kaz
xho
mri
srn
kom
gle
deu
san
xmf
ile
lao
dan
mdf
kom
ile
als
frp
srp
be-tarask
grn
fao
hak
wln
nap
pus
ckb
lav
tet
oci
lat
jpn
nds
krc
glk
vls
xho
lao
new
ang
swa
roh
sco
eng
sco
gla
fry
lat
zea
div
tur
glg
swe
ton
war
ces
ori
new
gag
mal
div
ara
nep
nso
ita
ina
bre
mal
mai
ang
nan
fin
pus
udm
oss
ace
jpn
mlt
dan
mon
srp
kin
guj
ukr
kan
pnb
bho
nan
sco
ceb
afr
kat
bar
oci
lav
pdc
urd
tur
mdf
glg
hye
xmf
mar
krc
amh
yid
hbs
fas
dsb
map-bms
fas
glg
amh
bxr
slk
frp
orm
fin
lin
ron
nav
tat
fra
vep
dty
roa-tara
hak
srn
por
pcd
ina
lad
ron
hak
nav
lrc
hye
olo
hun
fur
gag
khm
hun
ara
pus
mlg
vie
ukr
lmo
cdo
hif
ori
kin
ibo
fra
kan
ina
lug
tyv
fin
swe
pag
swa
ksh
egl
eng
gla
vep
roa-tara
hif
dty
pam
kaz
tur
map-bms
vol
hak
fao
hin
lit
xho
urd
bjn
hat
pol
sna
gag
fur
myv
bar
olo
lav
zea
fur
nno
krc
bar
isl
gag
jav
pam
eng
sqi
nav
jpn
ina
lat
cat
new
ron
nan
new
mdf
frp
pcd
aym
sna
sin
mhr
ita
oss
hun
csb
ava
pfl
zea
fas
swe
rue
nld
glk
arg
afr
lug
msa
gag
roa-tara
sqi
mwl
glg
mal
ckb
nrm
myv
egl
tgl
kor
mwl
sqi
bpy
nob
nap
mhr
kat
pol
scn
mai
est
slv
egl
lin
srd
guj
vls
orm
jbo
che
bod
dsb
hat
por
hun
spa
bar
cym
swa
ace
kin
jpn
est
tha
roh
ltg
hat
cat
grn
udm
kbd
xho
bjn
ile
eus
hun
che
oss
uig
glg
kat
tam
mkd
ang
ltg
ron
pam
lad
arg
ron
afr
aze
bho
sna
frp
olo
ava
ang
kat
rus
sme
spa
mar
ast
hif
yid
hsb
sin
krc
srp
ext
nds-nl
asm
afr
mar
ang
sgs
nld
hye
snd
cos
kin
cbk
pam
cos
mai
guj
ukr
pag
krc
mai
cat
hif
roh
gle
bpy
est
sme
mkd
ces
sme
ast
mdf
cor
swe
mlt
arg
fur
orm
pcd
gag
pap
che
mhr
pan
est
lat
pam
ina
stq
tel
kaz
bel
srp
lrc
sgs
div
ina
ckb
asm
est
pol
est
cbk
ile
lug
ori
bcl
cor
ceb
nds-nl
hat
dan
que
ile
khm
bjn
lrc
ckb
slv
msa
nap
ind
est
ina
hun
asm
lez
mlt
oss
kor
hin
cym
tam
aze
urd
urd
msa
que
hak
kin
por
slk
hbs
amh
cat
pus
be-tarask
lat
fry
ext
srd
hak
pam
ile
nso
que
nld
lim
jbo
ksh
sgs
eus
aym
hrv
nap
bod
ton
mar
lmo
war
nso
lim
que
bho
cor
mai
krc
cos
guj
nds
ibo
bel
epo
pam
mon
pag
orm
vls
nav
ksh
vls
sgs
crh
grn
jpn
ron
bre
ara
swa
gla
udm
wln
lin
vls
lrc
wln
san
bod
div
amh
snd
asm
arg
map-bms
nno
amh
lao
lin
cat
jbo
hye
bar
ile
min
eng
mwl
gag
ast
lao
lug
asm
cbk
pam
udm
ceb
lrc
cym
be-tarask
kbd
cos
cbk
mlt
pus
eus
aym
vie
mri
stq
mdf
aze
div
msa
lad
sme
glv
hsb
slv
xmf
lat
hbs
glg
vls
ori
lit
kbd
sme
lao
zea
nep
pap
pfl
pnb
hun
oci
vls
new
urd
hsb
snd
egl
gag
dty
ron
oss
ell
wln
kbd
sna
srd
egl
new
mlt
ksh
nav
kaz
lit
ksh
mhr
fas
ukr
spa
egl
glv
kaz
myv
deu
sme
kan
fry
tel
egl
frp
bod
lao
sna
hak
kom
gag
bul
mri
slk
mar
lez
lat
oss
rus
msa
spa
mri
sgs
aym
snd
ceb
egl
bcl
cbk
ces
kor
mal
lmo
sin
ltg
ang
tet
cbk
khm
oci
wln
asm
rue
ita
crh
vep
hye
mkd
amh
oss
kbd
hye
vie
vls
cbk
che
bcl
isl
lmo
ext
mlt
mlg
ibo
hye
pap
kor
ara
deu
vol
hat
pag
tur
nav
myv
oci
frp
pap
aze
roa-tara
ind
nds-nl
mlt
tcy
krc
msa
mdf
ara
roh
jbo
roa-tara
mkd
bpy
pfl
grn
kat
srn
bxr
bel
kaz
wln
cor
glv
san
cbk
wln
bod
ori
ina
fao
snd
lmo
ces
kom
mlg
pcd
pcd
new
ori
scn
slv
yid
kin
sgs
swe
sme
oci
hif
gla
lrc
bre
sme
pam
hrv
ukr
nep
xho
ast
rue
fas
roa-tara
hat
tam
nan
pfl
hin
roh
bjn
csb
ron
ace
lao
ita
bjn
vie
kat
spa
pam
cor
tat
arg
lav
nso
nav
hun
crh
lmo
ell
est
por
aym
jav
map-bms
epo
slk
vie
bre
tsn
mai
fas
nav
ceb
lad
hak
fas
fry
mdf
sco
war
cos
lat
nld
lat
lat
ita
lug
udm
hrv
glv
tcy
lat
hbs
arg
san
nep
cdo
lav
nap
pus
cdo
ltg
cdo
hye
tel
ara
gle
bul
ces
pan
hye
ast
csb
aym
mar
sna
rus
rup
orm
kaz
mlt
ext
cor
mlt
nan
sgs
afr
xmf
bel
war
tsn
pdc
jav
epo
hbs
hbs
tgl
hbs
lug
mlt
nrm
ace
pam
cos
bar
kor
ace
hbs
cym
hsb
tur
snd
pnb
arg
gle
jav
lrc
nav
ron
als
cbk
war
mwl
lmo
que
orm
swa
jpn
sna
spa
hbs
olo
nso
nds
mar
kan
afr
hye
kor
ltg
scn
hye
ile
lin
tgl
mya
krc
urd
san
bel
hbs
min
swa
csb
ibo
kat
orm
mya
fas
ibo
nan
jav
hye
vep
cat
div
nob
ang
vls
che
dsb
deu
msa
asm
gle
bre
vie
nds
kin
min
ile
ckb
kan
ckb
ukr
bpy
fao
cym
lug
lin
pnb
pan
nan
ell
nds-nl
snd
nrm
ron
arg
kom
slv
udm
urd
kat
nob
hak
amh
sqi
srd
nds-nl
ile
deu
egl
hrv
zea
epo
gla
ast
nno
new
vls
dsb
ell
hbs
lav
bod
mri
kor
ori
bxr
fra
cbk
pam
isl
fur
oss
nso
mon
bre
nav
mri
lit
mwl
map-bms
aym
als
pfl
srp
ces
vls
san
nob
grn
ron
fry
zea
pus
lao
als
fra
bod
ina
urd
nld
dty
ang
mri
pan
nob
gla
pus
mai
sme
bjn
vls
sin
kan
orm
hak
div
bre
orm
roh
hun
jpn
ava
guj
nso
nno
ltg
cym
sme
cdo
guj
gag
new
eng
deu
lin
che
div
dty
myv
map-bms
vol
krc
ita
lrc
csb
tyv
tsn
pfl
bul
min
mwl
epo
ina
ita
slk
fur
kbd
pol
lit
cor
cym
ori
oss
koi
sqi
myv
khm
jbo
ace
jbo
kat
cym
ukr
pnb
ang
dty
tam
tur
bxr
be-tarask
ckb
als
ukr
kaz
dan
kor
kaz
ast
sme
urd
ava
srn
min
lim
xmf
mdf
vol
fas
lim
mlg
pol
lad
hun
spa
tgl
glk
dsb
bjn
fur
gag
jav
scn
lit
fao
mhr
hin
krc
oss
krc
srd
dsb
zea
pap
ace
lad
srn
nds
arg
bre
sin
kor
mkd
mal
kat
srn
ind
fra
lit
eng
dan
rus
hye
swa
ita
mar
rus
vep
csb
fas
ukr
egl
bul
nds
lmo
wln
vol
sme
nav
cbk
rus
yid
egl
nob
nrm
ton
kom
nep
uig
lim
bel
tha
afr
kor
koi
mai
dsb
rue
olo
srn
lez
nno
zea
ksh
kor
guj
bcl
sna
nan
slv
hak
jpn
cbk
hye
hak
tat
udm
fin
ton
als
dsb
ace
ukr
pcd
fin
kan
mwl
est
ton
scn
tgl
fur
bre
dty
xho
dsb
slk
asm
ava
ile
lat
sme
rue
tyv
bul
eng
swe
ori
lav
bcl
bxr
lrc
asm
sin
mlg
sco
pdc
hat
nld
hun
srn
yid
nds-nl
fry
mwl
fao
mhr
tel
crh
lim
srd
csb
dan
bul
ang
eus
arg
sme
ckb
mlg
est
san
hat
tel
ava
hif
ara
cor
pap
bpy
nno
be-tarask
hbs
xmf
pnb
kin
slv
pcd
ell
glg
lat
srd
hak
udm
hin
pnb
war
amh
cym
ind
ang
war
mya
mar
lad
ksh
fra
hin
mri
glk
ell
dty
urd
lrc
pnb
lug
tat
war
fra
nds
koi
hsb
ton
nld
cdo
hin
ita
grn
lav
jav
ksh
ksh
mri
lat
ksh
cbk
kan
lim
eng
bod
orm
kin
bcl
bar
bjn
pol
hat
san
koi
mon
kbd
koi
vie
fin
div
pnb
jav
ori
pol
fas
krc
jav
ell
stq
egl
krc
fra
ces
ckb
mal
scn
frp
guj
lin
lav
lav
bod
glg
krc
sgs
dty
jbo
mri
bre
mar
crh
ava
lmo
lao
pnb
lug
lrc
hat
msa
sgs
tyv
ces
ibo
uig
swa
grn
mon
ori
aym
ell
ina
ell
san
ltg
ina
tcy
jpn
rue
ckb
hsb
nld
est
pol
sco
grn
sqi
oss
nds
ltg
ksh
kor
kaz
fin
oss
tcy
eng
hye
arg
mon
khm
rue
mdf
lav
lmo
koi
pan
roa-tara
che
kbd
srp
lmo
fas
fao
pol
spa
map-bms
lrc
pag
oss
isl
nno
gla
hsb
mar
vie
kin
ina
nav
fao
slv
egl
sin
pnb
xmf
tur
pol
lim
glv
mlt
lug
ces
hsb
lit
grn
ibo
lrc
stq
ast
min
urd
lao
snd
epo
nld
oci
lin
nld
ces
tha
xho
san
ace
roh
pam
ori
ceb
asm
xho
ile
tyv
nso
lrc
stq
che
sco
khm
ava
mhr
bpy
ext
fao
snd
eus
rus
amh
tyv
mwl
snd
pcd
tat
che
mon
stq
gag
vie
bre
lmo
mhr
als
fra
ukr
ibo
tgl
cym
pam
fin
hsb
yid
pfl
oss
stq
mkd
ita
lin
mya
epo
jpn
frp
ace
nds-nl
mya
bod
bar
koi
kin
aym
oss
new
ibo
ckb
koi
dty
frp
que
srd
mlg
mwl
gla
csb
isl
hsb
stq
wln
pag
krc
guj
spa
udm
ang
ukr
sgs
tyv
mal
snd
lug
tet
isl
lez
nan
deu
che
cos
slv
orm
ibo
fin
san
hye
fin
udm
mri
bcl
xho
mri
div
ori
kom
lez
bar
lin
ara
jav
jbo
zea
slk
mlg
aym
nap
pol
vol
nan
ara
jbo
glg
pol
new
kaz
vol
nan
frp
nds
koi
pnb
lat
grn
bul
bel
mkd
hun
cdo
ace
map-bms
swe
bre
est
guj
hif
bcl
ita
ang
wln
sqi
bel
zea
gag
srd
ell
kbd
wln
ltg
tam
cos
lao
lim
nap
hun
bho
aym
oci
asm
myv
nno
isl
kaz
ita
san
frp
eus
eng
fry
che
nep
tel
egl
cor
rue
crh
bho
cbk
new
srp
rus
nds-nl
udm
egl
hin
dsb
cbk
als
hak
roh
ang
tam
pnb
glv
sme
bre
sqi
ast
lao
pan
cat
sin
lao
msa
rus
dan
lug
bho
ton
eng
nrm
div
ile
tet
pfl
tsn
bxr
jbo
hun
ang
glv
spa
lez
lez
oss
pam
oci
csb
tet
ckb
lit
gag
tsn
snd
lug
ceb
ell
olo
tet
stq
que
urd
zea
orm
ces
grn
mal
asm
glg
nld
egl
fin
afr
lin
fao
afr
ceb
ext
crh
nno
sme
roh
lit
lim
swe
msa
bul
stq
pfl
udm
fas
lao
urd
ibo
bpy
bjn
vie
ast
pol
kbd
pan
sco
kom
pus
est
tur
nld
tam
bod
mlt
cat
ltg
ltg
grn
ton
urd
que
ron
mwl
div
jpn
oci
khm
roa-tara
nep
wln
hin
ron
mdf
tsn
cos
new
vol
nrm
sqi
hye
kbd
yid
tur
sqi
grn
gle
che
hrv
orm
rus
gle
ibo
scn
uig
nld
vls
jpn
kat
mdf
hak
mlt
fry
glg
jbo
wln
egl
bpy
srd
cat
tcy
lin
kbd
mon
sqi
ceb
spa
glg
stq
ces
pfl
msa
mya
isl
afr
bul
est
cym
nav
hbs
bel
cbk
oss
cos
nap
nso
mya
cdo
ava
lav
frp
lav
slk
sqi
nob
ltg
fao
afr
mon
fas
nds-nl
hif
sqi
be-tarask
tcy
ckb
sna
ang
bcl
div
ast
srp
zea
lug
ksh
tgl
new
mai
ava
tat
orm
xmf
guj
nob
gla
vie
mal
epo
spa
ceb
hat
ceb
ang
hif
srp
afr
glk
ita
pan
ina
nso
pag
koi
ckb
nav
ibo
nav
fas
urd
vls
gag
swe
eng
hsb
nso
mwl
rus
mal
ces
hat
hbs
lug
nno
mwl
rup
myv
hif
sme
ces
pam
myv
khm
bar
san
kaz
rue
snd
lat
div
epo
pnb
vol
slk
snd
msa
tha
afr
lav
lmo
ksh
kin
pcd
lim
mon
mar
afr
nso
ell
jpn
krc
msa
vie
wln
aze
pol
sin
vol
scn
lug
fra
fra
map-bms
kin
srd
sna
epo
mal
roa-tara
pan
lmo
ron
bul
mya
vie
orm
ina
est
tel
nno
cor
lav
koi
est
kat
sgs
kat
tyv
frp
srp
pag
uig
nav
hin
pam
stq
fry
hat
ita
ton
mai
cor
ckb
myv
uig
spa
bod
be-tarask
cbk
fin
cos
eng
vol
gag
sgs
mwl
ell
bel
kor
oss
ces
ces
guj
msa
sin
hsb
ell
mwl
che
cat
oss
ita
bul
krc
ina
kaz
eng
kbd
mya
roa-tara
ind
pcd
oci
bre
hak
dsb
hrv
pam
sco
ava
che
pcd
pnb
eng
ibo
hsb
rus
olo
hye
gle
eus
asm
mai
sco
div
tel
vep
scn
nob
mal
kat
sqi
nld
mai
lad
fry
lug
ara
ava
pap
ell
pan
kaz
che
epo
tel
stq
ckb
nds-nl
mya
tam
udm
tel
myv
mlt
pam
swa
sna
new
zea
pol
roh
pag
roh
wln
vls
roh
vol
lrc
kat
udm
glk
tur
jpn
ara
nob
kat
ext
hin
gla
pus
ang
pdc
epo
msa
deu
bel
jpn
ron
oss
kaz
che
arg
mri
vol
als
jpn
sme
srd
olo
mkd
war
gle
nav
lmo
bod
tha
sqi
stq
bjn
msa
ori
lug
tam
min
ori
cym
ind
che
kom
als
roa-tara
lim
pcd
cos
scn
sin
ori
ltg
srp
grn
mdf
egl
sme
ltg
orm
krc
tsn
myv
kbd
tat
zea
mri
lmo
ori
ksh
cbk
cym
ext
nno
glg
mal
fas
vie
cor
arg
kbd
new
ibo
war
swa
bjn
egl
mwl
ind
jpn
map-bms
xmf
pap
por
kbd
bcl
guj
por
xmf
rue
bod
oss
fin
tam
ukr
tsn
xmf
dty
mlt
egl
tam
nld
nob
tha
oss
xho
aze
pfl
dan
nob
bcl
nds
dsb
nep
cat
urd
min
tyv
oci
rue
ceb
pam
ces
mri
pan
crh
krc
pfl
guj
kaz
slv
jav
ext
lmo
hbs
gag
por
cym
rue
grn
mya
sme
crh
asm
pus
khm
xmf
mlt
hye
msa
ukr
ckb
bxr
mkd
pdc
olo
vie
pcd
dsb
uig
map-bms
ita
roa-tara
slv
snd
lug
new
vep
mlg
cos
nan
slk
hsb
epo
krc
olo
aze
tha
pag
mhr
msa
khm
fur
urd
che
cdo
ckb
krc
vol
pap
pol
krc
srd
gag
swe
cos
kaz
sqi
glk
mya
tat
sin
lrc
fin
bjn
dan
glk
aym
vie
wln
mya
war
ast
deu
cbk
cor
mya
fry
glg
scn
ava
tat
ori
swa
ang
orm
vie
urd
lad
ara
hat
hin
udm
pag
pan
pus
koi
pdc
uig
jpn
hbs
hye
pus
pan
sgs
lat
bre
nno
stq
kan
spa
kom
ina
xmf
pol
mlt
sna
koi
fin
mai
war
tur
sqi
mlt
pcd
msa
bpy
tgl
stq
afr
tgl
mar
koi
nap
mar
tsn
war
fry
tel
gle
ind
san
vie
pan
bjn
mal
hif
bho
tyv
ton
xmf
myv
pan
tsn
pam
arg
ron
vep
ltg
khm
tha
nso
nno
bcl
ita
nav
srp
slv
dan
vol
pcd
hye
hye
tur
swa
mwl
ang
ukr
lim
cos
kin
lav
olo
mal
fao
tsn
tel
be-tarask
ina
jav
sme
ltg
aym
bod
glg
pan
krc
msa
mdf
tgl
stq
ckb
stq
sna
nrm
ell
glg
tat
mri
ltg
tyv
lat
swa
slk
lug
ton
lat
eng
gle
slv
fra
lug
nso
lin
hsb
nav
tam
myv
swa
mwl
sco
ceb
oss
nld
asm
hif
che
ind
xmf
pus
udm
snd
hat
mya
tel
vie
dty
mhr
ita
hif
jav
mri
dsb
sgs
guj
ast
ceb
hrv
cor
pfl
lez
que
srn
krc
glk
nds-nl
jpn
sqi
lug
sin
sqi
fry
nob
ceb
nap
tgl
olo
ell
lav
vol
ori
pcd
bul
csb
zea
hrv
pan
cor
bcl
urd
srd
snd
jbo
jbo
bar
koi
lrc
ibo
que
pus
rus
kat
asm
hin
zea
hrv
ori
mon
ast
kor
nan
fra
mdf
lav
dty
pan
tsn
vol
fry
bjn
nep
glk
frp
mon
ast
bxr
ava
ori
srd
eng
cor
xmf
mlg
vep
lad
olo
pcd
tyv
map-bms
rue
dan
bre
ori
amh
mal
vep
koi
be-tarask
mlg
rue
tyv
lez
sna
vol
ceb
fas
nld
gag
vls
swa
fin
lat
ext
fin
fry
wln
afr
sco
frp
ces
uig
tgl
koi
pag
mri
tha
tat
ukr
pnb
tur
lad
mhr
grn
hbs
rue
tha
nds-nl
pnb
crh
sna
glg
eng
xho
aze
ace
mon
cos
swe
xho
yid
lmo
san
gla
pan
sco
slk
ell
sco
gle
fas
ara
hif
tgl
ast
ell
fas
amh
san
ksh
srn
lez
ang
pdc
fra
pcd
war
nds-nl
pan
fao
kan
amh
ckb
cos
kan
slk
sme
ceb
roa-tara
lrc
lez
bxr
mwl
nds-nl
cbk
nep
hsb
krc
bho
isl
glk
cbk
ceb
pol
ile
hif
mar
por
ron
por
ava
fur
tur
nrm
bul
nds-nl
mai
cat
pol
hrv
ltg
mlg
spa
hye
nds
ksh
gle
hif
hat
snd
tsn
ceb
sco
mar
krc
lav
yid
srn
lmo
pap
nso
sqi
nav
mar
srn
msa
rus
jav
lao
ltg
amh
cor
spa
sna
pan
mon
amh
xmf
ibo
lim
lit
pag
lin
lao
roh
kom
jbo
tcy
mdf
ell
swe
ton
bel
mri
lat
pus
bar
ron
nap
mlg
nap
ita
wln
slv
lmo
dsb
mlt
pol
pnb
nep
dan
roa-tara
ltg
cdo
mhr
udm
epo
ita
khm
bho
ron
koi
ace
por
yid
urd
slv
tet
min
scn
cym
vol
csb
isl
csb
zea
aym
dan
tyv
lez
srd
tyv
ace
jpn
mai
hif
mwl
cbk
sin
eus
sme
olo
ces
cos
div
aym
pus
kaz
eng
fra
isl
mwl
pdc
tel
ina
pcd
min
glv
pan
cos
ksh
bjn
ori
sqi
bul
csb
afr
bod
bpy
tat
nds
kom
mdf
csb
min
fin
deu
ibo
pcd
xho
sna
glk
sna
lin
tyv
ori
myv
roh
eng
eus
swa
kat
mkd
tam
bho
bpy
ces
crh
hsb
ext
tur
mhr
che
mdf
pan
frp
ina
nap
dty
olo
lim
vls
udm
fry
vep
cos
hin
nep
hrv
sco
cym
xmf
tcy
udm
egl
ita
nob
ton
mon
mri
guj
uig
mri
srd
nds
srp
epo
bxr
jav
afr
ckb
ksh
oci
nds
cos
hat
new
roa-tara
pap
arg
nno
hak
egl
mal
oss
nso
slk
wln
ltg
aze
tam
fry
asm
mlt
jbo
slv
glg
csb
nrm
ina
nep
udm
tam
fao
amh
snd
nan
srd
mdf
khm
bul
mar
kbd
slk
gle
nan
deu
mlt
sqi
bel
ltg
slk
hif
tur
arg
ron
vie
mhr
tsn
jpn
ori
udm
ksh
nan
lmo
egl
khm
srp
bel
orm
nan
bar
grn
ceb
eng
ibo
pdc
tur
eng
hin
lao
lin
roa-tara
scn
fry
oss
hif
pap
wln
gle
tel
bod
asm
amh
ukr
dty
mon
pan
vls
aym
roh
ind
gla
egl
glk
pfl
slk
als
deu
ell
pfl
ron
ori
hbs
div
mkd
lug
als
hif
pdc
deu
mya
nav
hun
isl
mwl
eng
ori
khm
ara
bho
tgl
yid
nan
mon
eng
ton
vie
slv
tur
als
hin
slv
koi
jbo
nds-nl
udm
cor
est
scn
rus
sin
deu
olo
mon
pam
msa
fra
myv
ibo
por
gag
roh
ile
ara
eus
nan
scn
aym
lez
ceb
crh
myv
vie
cos
zea
lug
lao
min
bod
mya
ava
snd
udm
tat
pus
san
stq
stq
pap
vls
nno
hbs
nds-nl
myv
pcd
nno
frp
aym
ces
cbk
ces
lug
hbs
grn
bul
ina
mkd
kan
be-tarask
mdf
ksh
lmo
pag
fin
mya
csb
sme
scn
lad
mal
ext
koi
be-tarask
lat
div
ita
lao
hrv
kat
msa
be-tarask
est
crh
fra
lug
mwl
kin
urd
scn
fin
dsb
pol
rup
ell
deu
khm
bpy
pcd
scn
snd
nld
pcd
vie
vie
mhr
nno
tyv
mlg
ext
che
tam
nob
hsb
hif
rue
tet
bpy
hif
san
ext
swe
tat
jav
hye
ukr
map-bms
hsb
olo
pnb
cor
ell
hbs
ast
swe
hsb
vep
kom
ibo
dty
epo
xho
bjn
fas
kat
ron
pcd
ton
sna
mlg
aym
ltg
bel
slv
arg
bho
olo
hun
lao
aze
lug
mhr
lat
kaz
kbd
por
sme
tur
jav
dan
tet
ceb
pfl
cbk
nan
tel
bcl
jpn
tam
pnb
ast
ang
nds-nl
est
vep
san
bod
lin
cat
crh
krc
glg
cor
slk
mal
war
grn
ava
gla
fas
vol
bpy
asm
nan
bxr
lad
hye
mlt
xho
snd
gag
tam
mlt
che
pol
mya
zea
kaz
scn
roh
mkd
uig
bxr
fao
aze
glv
isl
ast
hsb
mkd
ace
mkd
rup
bxr
fas
kbd
arg
ton
glk
guj
fas
olo
arg
gla
tat
rup
glk
tgl
nds
glv
olo
asm
cos
tur
mya
pdc
ton
nds
fao
gag
pan
kin
new
kan
lug
vep
dan
ile
fao
csb
pdc
als
mkd
als
lug
mon
bpy
mdf
tsn
sin
glv
tsn
tet
ron
olo
jpn
war
hrv
lad
mlg
swe
jbo
ckb
mai
tgl
pnb
bpy
lmo
srp
yid
be-tarask
amh
pnb
ukr
ext
hrv
bho
kbd
olo
lad
ceb
roh
tsn
mal
tsn
fry
lim
csb
tur
jpn
ita
tam
dsb
lav
cym
hsb
jpn
eus
ori
vls
ang
nrm
nep
glg
tha
ile
guj
rup
nds
ton
vep
gle
ace
cos
pus
swe
myv
urd
nep
srn
nld
kom
nav
roh
msa
lao
fao
hat
new
ace
que
war
ace
pcd
sin
snd
map-bms
lmo
lim
ceb
arg
kor
hbs
srp
aym
roh
frp
lao
nds
lit
gle
mar
nso
srp
glk
vie
que
hye
dsb
kin
lav
san
zea
mhr
ind
amh
hrv
lat
nep
kaz
dty
urd
roh
dty
aze
gag
lit
ron
gle
cbk
ukr
fur
aym
mar
aze
xmf
cos
min
fra
tyv
pan
mdf
lin
asm
lad
udm
lat
san
cbk
slv
ava
spa
ile
kor
ava
vep
nds
lao
ltg
dty
div
isl
rue
glk
gla
spa
cdo
lim
pol
lrc
ckb
grn
ori
cym
vep
pol
ang
bpy
cym
ind
roh
snd
ext
bar
cat
pap
bar
kor
aze
kbd
amh
xmf
bod
sco
rue
rus
bar
mya
lim
xmf
epo
gag
hak
swe
swa
jav
msa
ces
fur
lin
nds-nl
kan
dsb
hun
vep
jbo
orm
ace
kin
vep
bcl
bul
epo
sgs
kat
ext
pnb
pol
ksh
fao
pdc
hrv
cor
que
nap
bul
nds-nl
bul
mlg
est
rup
udm
dsb
tcy
pcd
olo
lin
udm
nds
sna
pam
ast
bar
rup
tyv
tam
tgl
tel
ksh
dsb
lug
roa-tara
be-tarask
vie
lez
nds
eus
be-tarask
tet
kat
nep
mhr
olo
cbk
sco
est
bpy
nrm
bel
myv
nno
div
asm
wln
nav
isl
kbd
bpy
ksh
tcy
san
roh
mai
eng
rue
jav
hak
sna
ext
mhr
pnb
fur
mlt
bjn
ext
tha
amh
cos
hsb
nso
ces
amh
nno
lin
mri
mon
snd
bxr
lat
tsn
ita
jbo
ace
krc
ind
jbo
srd
san
bod
war
tat
stq
swa
isl
hbs
ckb
gla
new
udm
tam
lez
urd
dty
csb
swe
bcl
xho
ukr
swa
nds
lug
gla
mkd
ang
ina
new
mal
ara
nob
hsb
rue
hrv
hye
pol
cym
cdo
kaz
rup
eng
swe
hye
fry
hif
nds
glg
roh
pan
arg
fur
bre
pus
crh
pfl
slk
tsn
mlg
roh
mar
vol
lrc
uig
glk
cym
vie
bho
dan
als
nav
gag
tcy
ile
ell
pdc
tel
pap
kbd
vol
nno
pag
khm
min
lad
jpn
olo
ara
ron
ile
koi
bpy
nno
ukr
lug
kat
tyv
kbd
spa
pnb
tet
olo
udm
lin
egl
scn
scn
tat
vol
lin
kom
ast
fra
frp
khm
div
nld
tsn
zea
lad
afr
ltg
pfl
cor
nds-nl
ext
srd
gag
pus
tha
tgl
aze
orm
ell
tyv
gag
oss
fao
sna
kom
amh
rue
mwl
olo
zea
bod
tcy
est
rue
hin
egl
hak
udm
ukr
nld
ori
cdo
map-bms
sme
nrm
jav
mhr
mwl
sme
bre
xmf
fra
mlt
slk
ina
udm
hye
krc
tha
uig
glg
kin
kaz
afr
che
eng
urd
ile
nds
vls
sco
tam
aze
ces
fry
bjn
mlg
vol
min
nep
nap
ksh
lug
gle
ibo
zea
sme
ell
tur
kom
stq
rus
mwl
nan
kat
que
vep
epo
lad
roa-tara
ast
sco
amh
vls
srp
lug
fas
war
hrv
ara
tet
bel
swa
roa-tara
amh
mdf
srp
mon
grn
deu
pnb
ron
nrm
pus
ltg
mai
lin
fin
ceb
bod
hye
tel
ang
lad
est
eng
cbk
bpy
cor
ton
pnb
urd
mar
frp
tet
sin
snd
cym
oss
san
dan
nld
bel
pan
lrc
oci
mhr
epo
cat
vep
kom
fao
ast
pnb
ceb
mwl
asm
hif
hin
pcd
spa
tet
srp
hak
ltg
hsb
bul
ina
oss
mri
udm
frp
hin
xmf
ita
mya
est
tsn
fur
lit
epo
lrc
que
est
bcl
snd
xho
vls
oci
ava
pag
ava
bel
ces
bjn
que
pap
nav
tyv
deu
ina
slv
lat
vep
snd
amh
pnb
ile
vep
bxr
pnb
pfl
yid
nob
mkd
ace
xmf
pdc
sgs
kom
sgs
msa
bho
pnb
lug
spa
pol
ita
crh
ile
lav
arg
ind
tel
myv
eus
tam
jpn
tam
lim
lav
egl
lav
urd
spa
tam
que
ell
ext
ibo
tgl
epo
ace
yid
roh
bpy
fin
min
mya
vep
olo
mal
new
bel
crh
rup
pag
hun
deu
bre
xho
ell
uig
hye
cym
dty
xho
mai
nav
tsn
uig
udm
fin
koi
cdo
ukr
ace
mya
nob
ang
tgl
por
new
grn
khm
bod
swe
hrv
que
ron
msa
hsb
glk
srn
lad
gle
swe
arg
ina
kor
grn
epo
min
gag
glv
mlg
lez
slk
bod
fin
urd
eng
mon
nrm
sme
vep
tha
div
fas
nav
rue
hsb
cor
vep
che
guj
crh
ext
rup
aze
ibo
asm
pap
pam
aym
ksh
mal
que
xmf
fra
lav
myv
mlt
new
eng
snd
ukr
sgs
oci
khm
nav
fas
swa
mlg
map-bms
bjn
nno
kbd
asm
tat
sna
est
que
pam
ces
est
kin
afr
glv
lav
new
stq
nap
khm
kom
sgs
lez
msa
epo
lez
snd
aze
mai
lav
xmf
tcy
sme
kat
kin
tur
uig
lit
spa
srp
stq
cos
tet
ron
lao
srp
ibo
ace
fin
pol
ang
tha
crh
nds-nl
cat
mar
spa
mal
stq
ibo
ara
hun
rus
hrv
ori
gle
ceb
xho
hye
lim
roh
mya
eng
hsb
mar
deu
tyv
mri
srn
mlt
bar
nan
glg
fao
ind
mhr
est
eng
lrc
kaz
frp
nap
hun
pfl
vol
mdf
bod
pfl
frp
eus
slk
glg
tyv
bho
swe
mwl
eng
nan
swe
sgs
ltg
tel
mkd
isl
nan
mdf
ces
epo
pag
est
map-bms
rup
stq
glv
spa
kat
bxr
rus
kom
kom
sin
spa
lrc
ceb
urd
mkd
lez
kat
olo
glg
mhr
sna
pan
hun
ext
ace
srd
zea
sqi
dty
lmo
san
hat
stq
epo
khm
bjn
kom
srd
tet
dsb
pus
pus
egl
mlg
kat
cdo
pam
bcl
kat
pfl
scn
guj
ukr
tel
sin
kat
hin
rue
krc
pfl
lmo
rue
san
glk
tsn
ita
nds-nl
nep
tet
jpn
dty
pdc
bel
lit
mlt
tam
gla
lat
ori
bre
pcd
kom
pfl
min
hin
afr
slv
glk
glg
hye
que
jbo
dty
mya
mdf
ina
oci
lez
crh
tsn
zea
kin
ron
mlt
ina
dan
cos
new
nob
ace
kan
hsb
srp
dsb
bcl
nap
amh
ava
dsb
yid
tet
yid
map-bms
que
war
lat
ckb
eus
dsb
deu
mlt
nrm
udm
ell
lug
hsb
lav
fur
fao
bpy
pan
nld
pnb
div
ast
ara
pus
mar
san
nob
ori
est
war
dsb
tur
bpy
pnb
hrv
ina
ibo
be-tarask
pap
hye
eng
est
lug
gla
myv
bcl
hat
orm
pdc
hak
crh
epo
pcd
mlt
pap
cat
est
srp
vol
csb
sco
lav
ace
rue
oci
fao
vep
mar
spa
kor
lin
pdc
ava
hak
zea
hrv
nld
nno
asm
nav
be-tarask
dty
hun
ron
kan
crh
ton
war
roh
mkd
pnb
jpn
nds
ara
pol
bre
por
nap
bre
oss
dsb
mdf
bul
cym
olo
nld
ksh
kom
bul
xho
mal
ara
mri
tam
lad
bre
nob
gle
vol
mya
urd
kbd
hsb
hrv
por
swa
als
ind
ita
mri
roa-tara
slk
gag
stq
be-tarask
ang
vep
asm
fra
mri
udm
uig
ace
rus
ltg
nep
ceb
mwl
vie
rue
tsn
lao
ava
swe
ton
ast
xmf
srn
oci
new
spa
olo
scn
hat
nap
afr
koi
rue
swa
che
bel
epo
lad
snd
zea
cym
glv
ava
mri
mri
als
mai
map-bms
gle
bho
koi
hin
koi
mal
ang
tat
pnb
fas
new
fas
cos
mhr
jpn
slv
swa
tsn
hat
aym
que
new
afr
tam
glg
jav
ori
rue
san
tsn
urd
ckb
bpy
srp
kan
xho
orm
aym
lmo
mri
lez
cbk
rus
jbo
pol
lin
urd
nds
bel
egl
sgs
oss
glk
mlg
rus
xho
gla
ori
mya
sna
yid
ava
ori
als
urd
ceb
nrm
min
fao
lin
pdc
tel
mdf
stq
asm
ell
san
san
rue
eng
bxr
mlt
tyv
pfl
nds-nl
xmf
cos
bjn
epo
por
bod
map-bms
tam
olo
mri
pag
lmo
tcy
swe
lit
fur
deu
tha
mon
mon
mwl
tgl
lav
mal
dty
sgs
por
srp
ckb
ita
mya
roa-tara
yid
ton
scn
dsb
ita
pan
stq
pus
dsb
hbs
min
ron
myv
dsb
stq
nep
ton
hbs
grn
spa
slk
war
kom
fry
glk
fry
jbo
lao
hak
gle
nrm
mal
uig
ile
tel
por
mai
grn
nan
nds-nl
lad
dan
fao
hsb
fra
rue
mhr
egl
glk
hun
nld
amh
tam
ton
cat
pam
arg
ita
sqi
aze
tam
srp
hif
che
pnb
ara
yid
lav
hin
jbo
ltg
ell
roa-tara
vls
dan
oss
mkd
deu
tet
war
che
vls
guj
slv
snd
tel
bcl
glg
fur
eng
orm
che
lav
scn
hin
mdf
ori
tsn
lat
rup
sna
san
lez
fry
pam
vie
ksh
min
myv
pfl
ita
cbk
pnb
ibo
tyv
hrv
vie
ara
lez
myv
mdf
vls
krc
tur
stq
nrm
lad
aze
afr
nep
orm
tgl
glk
roa-tara
hsb
nno
mlg
sin
hak
csb
lao
nan
csb
frp
vol
khm
slv
mon
tel
mkd
kbd
krc
krc
slk
pam
sco
lmo
new
pcd
srp
new
bxr
als
fry
grn
vep
roa-tara
ron
eng
bre
nds
kan
bre
sna
ukr
rup
ile
bod
deu
srn
ron
tyv
pol
pcd
bul
cor
ina
vol
bel
fry
snd
dan
new
glg
oss
egl
div
amh
ukr
div
mri
ina
swa
egl
ang
ukr
tgl
nep
nds
cor
ron
xho
koi
vie
sgs
sqi
cym
hif
udm
ina
ton
eng
rus
mdf
deu
tur
vls
bxr
als
ara
oci
hbs
bul
csb
nan
srn
mon
ile
nob
fur
mhr
mri
nds-nl
oci
min
que
srn
dan
ltg
oci
mon
srn
lug
nob
new
xho
ces
ukr
pfl
mal
glv
swa
srn
ibo
rus
roa-tara
fin
lat
nob
urd
glv
ind
ceb
ces
wln
hin
mlg
nld
lrc
glv
nno
ukr
mlg
pus
tur
bpy
orm
fry
div
pfl
pap
ukr
hbs
nld
nds
pol
nav
afr
ckb
fry
olo
kom
frp
afr
tam
yid
vls
hsb
nan
jav
srp
div
nan
ksh
oss
ast
nep
ita
lat
kbd
jav
sme
lim
nep
orm
mai
deu
vie
mlt
pan
nld
sco
tcy
cym
tyv
vol
olo
hat
rus
urd
mlg
nso
pfl
nan
nso
hun
lez
rus
cbk
mwl
kom
srd
orm
cym
mya
fin
khm
aze
mwl
mal
nld
tgl
bar
lao
est
stq
dty
ron
sgs
pag
tsn
pam
khm
pol
slv
fas
bul
jbo
lin
pnb
lit
crh
ext
lim
mal
pam
frp
mon
nds-nl
lug
por
lrc
mhr
sna
fur
bar
ron
udm
slk
ext
ang
dsb
nob
hrv
bar
fry
ukr
nav
nds-nl
khm
stq
stq
oci
ind
guj
min
krc
cat
bar
hak
ceb
cym
als
fin
roh
pap
hbs
pfl
afr
be-tarask
slk
che
nap
csb
ton
bxr
pam
hak
gag
lug
cor
tam
mhr
msa
pus
hif
roh
bul
udm
bpy
be-tarask
frp
guj
be-tarask
hye
lez
pnb
swe
bel
map-bms
lug
oss
scn
ces
gla
ksh
ori
mlt
sme
vie
ton
bho
tha
nrm
fao
amh
pag
lrc
ltg
tet
vie
ceb
new
war
bre
min
xmf
pdc
glk
urd
hat
udm
xho
lug
tha
cym
hye
lit
hat
bcl
kan
ang
mai
ksh
frp
nob
gle
mhr
bul
ast
hak
bxr
tgl
sme
swa
roh
myv
tet
oci
lin
ton
glv
mya
xmf
mya
udm
ron
msa
pdc
ell
vls
lin
dsb
sco
mar
mar
sqi
lug
gla
ukr
dan
ava
mdf
ltg
udm
ind
hif
slk
sqi
sqi
hak
wln
cym
ori
mya
pol
deu
ton
ang
ukr
est
tat
srp
swa
mya
hak
san
ast
uig
wln
hif
mwl
sgs
sgs
swa
slk
fas
war
pap
bre
msa
udm
fao
mai
cym
epo
fra
aym
vep
ell
lav
lao
lav
pdc
gag
min
crh
gag
srd
pus
ace
jpn
lao
lrc
ksh
lmo
tyv
kin
mdf
asm
ast
min
tha
csb
cos
fur
epo
sgs
snd
ceb
bho
hrv
nav
frp
aym
arg
gla
ceb
eng
mya
min
als
ind
afr
lim
pap
wln
ori
nld
ces
yid
eus
hye
ukr
fur
lad
nld
lim
kom
nso
est
lim
grn
ukr
bxr
tet
che
msa
jbo
cym
wln
sgs
lad
ksh
mkd
ces
aym
ori
wln
oss
sco
kbd
rup
por
lao
slk
gag
bxr
csb
jav
aym
tet
map-bms
fra
que
ibo
nso
ksh
nno
bho
kbd
hun
fas
cat
isl
tgl
dsb
pus
egl
pdc
sqi
aze
nds-nl
koi
amh
san
srp
por
be-tarask
hbs
bjn
mdf
hrv
tet
dsb
bxr
por
jpn
pan
lin
orm
zea
mya
bpy
bel
glv
jav
pol
ile
kat
por
sme
ksh
que
rue
ukr
nrm
lin
ina
stq
uig
bxr
ast
fao
gla
sco
stq
mdf
pdc
mlg
hbs
cat
hak
fry
ind
bod
ksh
cbk
dty
ibo
sna
csb
hrv
kin
fin
dsb
min
spa
gle
min
ace
dan
slk
kan
glv
eus
koi
ell
tel
hye
hye
lad
fas
amh
myv
slk
cat
bcl
ckb
nld
hye
vol
rue
tel
srn
khm
ext
lad
oci
mlt
guj
vie
glv
scn
fao
fin
lin
guj
ara
glk
bcl
msa
est
gag
kor
bho
kin
swa
wln
udm
ile
dan
tel
est
gla
krc
stq
bcl
mya
eng
oci
bxr
rue
bre
cdo
hin
ara
mon
xho
oci
srn
deu
bod
dty
mal
kom
cym
che
sco
kaz
kor
mdf
be-tarask
hun
mar
kan
pfl
ces
afr
urd
glk
mya
ara
epo
scn
urd
ell
mon
nso
gla
bel
pus
mal
lad
krc
sin
war
ang
lin
tcy
jpn
tel
als
tgl
crh
bho
lad
mlg
mar
hrv
kbd
mdf
mdf
lat
egl
kom
slk
wln
ava
bre
kor
pcd
mhr
hbs
mya
bul
mon
scn
pdc
cat
vep
yid
crh
tyv
bjn
mwl
koi
ang
cor
div
fry
dsb
isl
ell
jbo
tel
rue
fas
egl
map-bms
sna
dan
hye
ron
yid
dan
lao
ara
mal
krc
roh
nds-nl
dsb
lat
rus
roh
dsb
lim
rup
tgl
slk
epo
bul
kat
dan
csb
jpn
pap
nds
min
xho
tet
mai
ksh
srd
isl
pag
mal
rus
mkd
tsn
hun
aym
cos
cos
ckb
hrv
mlg
oci
krc
fao
cat
tur
ara
sin
udm
ind
cos
ara
ksh
tcy
cor
srn
pag
nob
nld
mya
sin
ita
ksh
arg
koi
aym
pam
dan
ast
hin
myv
jbo
dan
pfl
cat
ibo
tur
ang
orm
sco
ace
fin
ina
nep
vep
vol
tha
tsn
vol
fas
sme
kom
ext
che
ton
nno
nob
lav
slk
tur
bul
cbk
kan
mlg
ton
hak
snd
pag
mlg
tsn
vls
afr
min
kaz
che
cym
ile
bho
cbk
map-bms
srp
vls
fin
be-tarask
myv
mlt
kin
sgs
lrc
lrc
war
myv
cat
war
zea
war
lav
pam
egl
kin
tam
tet
nob
pam
hif
cat
nob
vol
bpy
lav
crh
khm
amh
war
ile
nav
gla
hun
nep
div
hat
guj
rup
cdo
cdo
oss
fao
san
lmo
urd
nan
mdf
lit
wln
new
bul
hrv
mar
war
hat
jav
aze
xmf
new
tam
als
lim
vep
afr
lrc
nob
vls
pnb
ces
tur
sin
min
als
udm
frp
myv
gla
vep
asm
aze
ksh
ckb
mdf
deu
ext
fur
swe
min
oci
por
glv
csb
koi
hif
lao
che
frp
war
ibo
dan
oss
vls
kbd
srn
pam
nds
kan
slv
ksh
hin
kat
nld
mkd
msa
hak
hye
pan
map-bms
lmo
roa-tara
frp
roa-tara
fin
fur
nap
nld
nep
slv
ltg
epo
afr
ace
oss
war
bjn
mal
hin
pan
sin
tgl
csb
lav
ukr
csb
div
isl
ext
crh
vls
eus
epo
lat
oci
ces
nds
pag
khm
frp
kbd
mlt
lav
slv
kbd
bxr
ace
cdo
ron
sgs
kat
srn
hin
por
uig
cbk
mon
crh
jav
nav
olo
nep
ita
srd
dsb
vep
als
be-tarask
glg
fas
lad
tam
vie
mlt
mon
bel
vie
div
nrm
bjn
fur
bel
hsb
hrv
mai
uig
lug
srd
sna
cbk
hif
epo
mai
jbo
als
tur
nno
ina
ton
oci
kin
hak
urd
slv
hsb
fra
slv
lez
sin
new
hif
pag
eng
fas
koi
pcd
ksh
myv
ina
ron
pdc
che
scn
ace
nso
lad
nds
nno
mlt
div
afr
ukr
srp
bpy
sgs
kin
nep
ace
glv
bcl
ceb
kor
asm
csb
pnb
eng
hun
vie
lin
tsn
roa-tara
mwl
bre
nso
glk
ces
roh
nrm
mlg
xho
dsb
be-tarask
est
kaz
fur
sgs
ace
be-tarask
ind
fao
cor
hif
ces
olo
div
wln
bul
pdc
pnb
pag
sco
cdo
bcl
ita
ast
hin
slk
lad
kbd
lmo
tam
fas
ava
ton
vie
yid
msa
lez
khm
kor
pus
bul
ton
krc
nno
mhr
tel
vie
aze
pag
hif
ton
div
epo
olo
guj
bar
mon
lit
lrc
nso
tur
war
tsn
lrc
kan
lug
ita
dan
egl
oci
cbk
arg
stq
pnb
mon
gag
hif
cat
lao
lim
eus
afr
afr
hsb
vol
orm
map-bms
frp
ava
ile
tat
ext
urd
map-bms
kin
ukr
ile
pfl
tet
gle
kor
sgs
rue
fra
ckb
ext
fas
srd
fao
mlg
bul
pdc
nrm
udm
vie
nav
srn
tgl
ara
nno
amh
deu
san
als
krc
dty
slk
rue
ukr
gle
swe
xho
tat
bul
tyv
gla
tam
rus
pdc
ace
nep
aze
ava
srn
san
csb
aym
ibo
ton
cos
glv
pan
min
orm
cdo
udm
epo
snd
orm
tam
fao
lat
div
hsb
isl
vie
xho
hye
isl
ita
ckb
hun
div
ina
ita
ceb
hbs
amh
spa
vie
glg
lin
tat
nds
vie
cdo
udm
als
slv
gla
tur
hin
khm
ibo
lat
pfl
hrv
nrm
amh
fin
glk
scn
glk
bpy
ara
ita
new
tet
hat
sme
gle
bod
ind
rup
hun
mal
srp
kat
pol
glv
ell
hsb
mhr
fur
cbk
nno
eus
deu
hbs
ava
stq
myv
dty
roa-tara
guj
spa
bxr
ckb
jav
vie
gla
bpy
eus
fur
lug
lrc
xmf
koi
nno
hsb
ina
lad
ina
msa
eus
ukr
mri
tet
mwl
pol
hun
bar
ava
lao
jav
oss
roa-tara
aym
mlt
ibo
map-bms
tyv
udm
bcl
yid
lit
ces
map-bms
koi
glg
oci
ell
olo
lez
mhr
guj
vep
udm
ext
ell
vls
ina
guj
sco
swe
be-tarask
sin
ceb
cor
cor
nep
jpn
cor
rue
ara
ckb
ara
scn
fas
lug
glv
cym
nds
oss
jbo
fry
ind
hsb
isl
mon
arg
ina
nap
epo
nav
ara
ita
rus
be-tarask
sin
cdo
mai
lmo
jav
san
spa
min
zea
tat
cor
srn
ina
ang
mya
ang
tgl
pcd
gla
hun
kom
hif
swe
ksh
sgs
als
dty
als
ast
nso
vie
srd
csb
vls
tgl
glg
min
olo
hsb
mhr
ukr
deu
srd
mal
sqi
nan
kbd
hif
war
dsb
nap
tyv
als
sin
ton
pcd
bho
tgl
eus
ron
ext
roh
pus
egl
aze
che
ava
slv
div
frp
epo
war
che
nno
stq
pus
dan
vol
lav
spa
hun
udm
krc
est
pol
fur
nob
pus
che
kan
lrc
fin
vie
lin
lav
map-bms
als
mwl
nds
tur
min
fra
pdc
bel
sco
tel
che
urd
oci
cor
pol
tam
udm
nob
tat
nds
hak
pap
amh
mlg
deu
gla
xho
min
nso
tet
mkd
nso
pcd
deu
zea
mri
mri
lao
ckb
eng
glk
sgs
egl
tet
swa
srn
tyv
kat
tgl
tcy
dan
yid
dty
swa
vep
ell
glv
pam
ckb
war
vie
pdc
pdc
div
map-bms
bul
pfl
rup
mwl
lav
ton
fin
rue
mwl
rup
xmf
ace
tyv
nap
srd
jbo
ace
tat
gag
eus
swa
pfl
nep
egl
arg
slk
nds-nl
hbs
tat
arg
lug
rus
fao
frp
urd
yid
ind
que
als
srd
tet
hin
hsb
sco
epo
nep
ava
nrm
pol
slk
tgl
ell
glk
deu
hye
aze
asm
roa-tara
tgl
hif
cbk
be-tarask
kat
ckb
krc
mar
hif
koi
lrc
pfl
bcl
fry
nap
be-tarask
asm
olo
guj
deu
kan
mri
pnb
gag
kbd
scn
war
mon
dan
oss
hye
ita
krc
ava
ltg
pcd
ibo
ori
dty
kin
scn
oss
vls
tur
que
csb
kbd
min
stq
min
cat
sme
tyv
mal
div
nld
nep
srd
ind
ace
sin
lav
sco
rus
lit
gla
guj
tsn
cor
kor
bar
div
ava
pus
krc
glg
bjn
nso
sqi
dan
vep
dsb
war
est
eng
pap
lmo
hsb
san
als
tgl
koi
ext
dsb
ksh
srd
kaz
mlt
tha
csb
lmo
hun
aym
sco
cor
ceb
vie
cdo
guj
ton
mar
sgs
slk
nob
gag
min
koi
new
nld
epo
lug
swe
ava
hun
pfl
roa-tara
bjn
nds-nl
tur
mri
vie
tam
hun
sin
ara
ces
ell
als
ava
xmf
scn
mal
new
gle
mon
ibo
lad
hak
yid
ckb
fao
lin
mai
arg
ita
cos
swe
lat
tcy
ile
vie
glv
san
msa
fur
fin
eng
san
bel
urd
eus
bpy
min
asm
roa-tara
ace
jav
ara
tha
tyv
ina
san
lin
kaz
nav
nso
mya
nds
bho
pcd
ita
mya
jbo
swe
srn
lug
grn
zea
eng
nob
lrc
bho
glk
bcl
dan
nan
bpy
ita
zea
que
lug
bod
sna
cdo
que
vol
bjn
mai
pag
grn
kom
hrv
kaz
spa
tgl
ita
vol
khm
lmo
rus
wln
arg
fin
oci
mal
map-bms
ton
grn
pus
ast
srn
stq
jbo
tcy
lim
scn
ibo
pag
vls
bod
uig
ita
jav
fas
krc
hun
tet
jbo
zea
lit
roh
hsb
div
kat
ibo
nap
ton
udm
ava
ksh
fra
nrm
be-tarask
srp
ita
kan
ksh
bpy
sna
ara
xho
eng
fra
jpn
ang
che
urd
afr
fra
xmf
ron
bho
jav
ton
ina
khm
nds-nl
nds-nl
tur
vol
snd
aze
als
ang
nan
ces
tur
map-bms
jav
lao
div
glv
swe
nds-nl
tur
crh
tat
pam
tha
bel
mal
glk
slk
egl
olo
ckb
bel
eus
srp
tur
roa-tara
gla
urd
nso
snd
gle
kaz
wln
pam
swa
lav
oss
tur
oss
gag
nds
grn
kat
kbd
lat
nno
xmf
ceb
mhr
mdf
vls
tel
frp
bcl
lao
war
sin
fra
tel
tgl
lat
fas
cos
swa
ara
tha
glk
orm
mri
khm
swa
spa
dsb
koi
cat
isl
bod
orm
map-bms
dsb
urd
slv
ile
gle
mal
lin
ang
xmf
orm
hbs
nob
cos
asm
sco
ace
gag
div
cat
deu
min
nep
jav
pap
uig
udm
jav
fao
gag
ckb
lav
ile
hin
hat
ind
crh
div
uig
fur
spa
new
kan
fas
ava
mal
mkd
cdo
dsb
gag
tel
sna
sqi
ace
nrm
ast
swe
hsb
fry
tcy
mai
dty
pap
spa
ind
tcy
roa-tara
pol
ces
mlt
gag
pnb
lmo
mya
ckb
tcy
sgs
kbd
ckb
mhr
hsb
mhr
ile
ita
asm
pan
ori
tet
glg
jpn
fra
nap
epo
hat
pol
ton
vls
map-bms
mdf
grn
lad
tyv
mwl
jbo
hrv
hbs
tha
pol
krc
tcy
mri
pus
swe
hat
ukr
fur
dty
pcd
kin
roa-tara
xho
zea
che
ind
cos
frp
eus
nap
tam
lat
ori
pfl
por
ile
bul
lim
cor
oci
khm
vol
pol
sgs
deu
fas
ace
lin
che
tel
tur
fin
wln
roa-tara
msa
sin
sna
mhr
hrv
hrv
kan
pam
pap
ibo
ltg
mkd
tsn
eng
sme
kor
csb
koi
nds
lrc
ckb
cdo
uig
asm
eng
oss
amh
sco
hun
ksh
vep
pfl
stq
nob
hif
mya
mon
mkd
ina
pus
scn
tcy
bho
glg
hif
bel
pap
tha
epo
asm
ang
kom
nso
khm
asm
sgs
fin
pam
glk
ces
lad
glk
hsb
ava
bho
min
mdf
sqi
oss
scn
asm
bul
lin
udm
bel
epo
ksh
lat
fao
ceb
pag
vol
nds-nl
ace
lmo
nav
dty
srn
lmo
ang
pnb
kaz
kin
hye
pus
bel
ksh
srn
ita
tsn
oci
mdf
frp
epo
fur
frp
kin
hrv
myv
fin
afr
cos
jbo
nan
hin
udm
mhr
vol
tgl
pam
map-bms
khm
frp
rue
nrm
vie
new
pag
lin
olo
vep
fur
pag
pam
por
roh
bcl
msa
ext
ron
lrc
snd
pol
krc
tur
hsb
jpn
tsn
sqi
tam
ori
pol
glg
ori
dty
oci
isl
srn
myv
hye
crh
mya
oci
ibo
uig
lit
mlt
nan
koi
olo
frp
scn
oci
hrv
tat
nds
tyv
sco
ces
jbo
roh
ara
sin
ind
cos
fra
nds-nl
tyv
glv
rus
ind
bjn
mri
kat
nap
myv
est
epo
dsb
ang
xho
hif
kbd
ceb
mwl
oci
ron
bar
fin
sna
lad
pam
nld
slv
isl
swa
hat
xho
cos
ind
afr
cdo
fas
jbo
sqi
slk
map-bms
nld
pan
div
khm
slv
be-tarask
srp
mai
new
ast
ltg
min
mya
che
hak
ita
sqi
glg
nap
new
glv
aze
nan
pol
pol
nno
udm
swa
aze
koi
por
vie
slk
mon
be-tarask
por
olo
ell
hif
nds
slv
snd
ava
stq
hak
olo
tha
glg
jpn
ina
nep
tam
mdf
fry
be-tarask
lrc
ckb
div
eus
ton
tcy
hun
dty
tgl
hun
tgl
cos
ibo
urd
ile
amh
nep
tet
lrc
csb
udm
urd
vls
roa-tara
ang
nds
guj
pan
vep
mon
vep
mar
swa
map-bms
ceb
new
sna
nap
ori
kor
pfl
mwl
tyv
fra
jav
lez
crh
jav
jbo
roh
div
koi
lmo
mwl
bel
uig
tha
udm
nso
nep
bar
arg
mwl
ast
ext
vol
sme
isl
ina
sco
mlt
nob
aym
ina
myv
nav
pnb
srp
hye
eus
grn
pan
kan
mwl
swe
tur
cbk
tam
lim
ces
fry
mai
wln
sin
jbo
cbk
eus
hrv
mon
bul
amh
nep
che
mri
kat
crh
kaz
pap
ori
bre
oss
bxr
aze
sna
grn
mlg
mwl
nap
lin
srn
nso
que
bcl
tha
crh
oss
koi
tsn
oss
tgl
deu
lat
sme
fra
hak
ell
war
srp
tsn
tel
krc
glv
bul
glg
egl
swe
jav
msa
bul
nav
ara
bul
dsb
tat
rue
div
olo
epo
hun
fin
kaz
deu
pfl
vie
hbs
bho
slk
cym
bar
snd
glg
fry
dty
lit
pnb
dan
crh
fur
pdc
urd
crh
war
crh
ita
fra
vep
deu
bul
mya
ind
mya
fao
fry
nno
ava
lim
mai
frp
hif
cdo
swe
amh
cat
sna
mri
lav
lug
slv
oci
div
kaz
cat
tat
gle
tgl
srn
srn
snd
tcy
mdf
stq
glg
urd
mar
sin
ita
sco
pdc
bcl
hsb
be-tarask
yid
bul
als
wln
xmf
sgs
srd
ind
srn
bho
yid
nrm
ell
lit
pag
xho
ksh
lim
kan
arg
mon
mon
oss
san
roa-tara
nap
fao
pol
bxr
swe
cos
bjn
stq
lug
ksh
lez
slv
roa-tara
spa
sco
bho
spa
pfl
san
kbd
zea
mhr
lat
afr
fao
sin
kor
mkd
bul
bpy
cos
snd
bel
lin
glg
sco
pol
ita
epo
kbd
lav
gla
orm
tat
kbd
xho
pus
olo
bre
snd
vol
mai
hsb
ita
glv
bjn
nld
oci
kin
hak
bre
sme
lav
cdo
hun
lug
zea
als
mya
nno
lit
bod
kor
kin
srp
tgl
vls
ibo
cdo
pcd
bel
lmo
lat
nrm
gle
swa
swe
ina
tat
lmo
pan
guj
cat
gle
aze
mkd
fao
ceb
mkd
bjn
ton
lav
lim
fur
rus
srd
amh
nds-nl
lad
gla
swa
nno
sqi
lez
guj
nan
crh
sna
pcd
mlg
oss
nds-nl
kat
nan
jpn
mwl
tsn
glg
lad
koi
lug
afr
lim
roa-tara
jav
orm
spa
war
bel
tat
roa-tara
kaz
bul
new
new
roa-tara
cor
war
mal
hbs
tam
lin
tyv
jpn
glv
pag
xho
oci
yid
deu
kat
vie
olo
kaz
tyv
uig
swa
udm
jpn
dsb
hsb
ile
hun
lrc
tyv
olo
cat
mya
mlt
pcd
rus
ton
ksh
mdf
nav
gag
tur
cat
lim
tel
pdc
gla
nds
cor
ceb
xmf
pag
lin
aym
bel
jpn
bod
hak
fin
map-bms
sqi
pan
nds-nl
rus
sco
jav
pol
ina
nrm
dty
myv
eng
srn
bod
ckb
hbs
ceb
ceb
sna
orm
bxr
khm
dty
kan
nno
deu
sme
spa
sna
lit
gag
ile
lat
isl
hat
jpn
eng
ace
div
ksh
kat
pag
pcd
glv
new
war
lug
tel
vep
krc
mwl
jbo
bcl
orm
ton
tgl
aym
lat
xmf
lin
roh
kbd
pdc
kor
oci
mdf
hif
mlt
tel
khm
div
deu
nap
srp
est
koi
sna
swa
mhr
ell
lad
pap
vol
vol
cor
oci
zea
lez
tcy
bre
zea
vol
mya
ron
bel
deu
lrc
ces
crh
sna
kom
jav
nav
kat
roh
pfl
por
ori
isl
mal
roh
hrv
khm
ori
ukr
tyv
fin
pap
mal
koi
hif
ceb
orm
yid
aym
hak
fry
cym
lad
mwl
asm
cat
nep
mri
gle
asm
lat
aze
ksh
tet
oci
tet
nap
ita
fra
vep
afr
hin
fra
tet
swa
gle
mri
bod
ell
vls
egl
tcy
ron
ile
slk
ibo
lao
hye
aym
uig
swe
nav
ckb
bcl
ace
ltg
mal
eng
glv
spa
fin
sme
bcl
oss
kaz
stq
nds-nl
gle
rup
hye
lat
rup
pnb
egl
nob
nds
grn
srn
wln
lim
xho
tha
mya
dan
que
egl
ori
pan
bcl
pus
amh
urd
msa
lrc
gag
hat
tam
tel
jbo
lao
bel
hsb
lug
roh
pus
srn
oci
vls
mdf
ceb
vep
tat
scn
bel
gag
pfl
nrm
bar
khm
jpn
dan
cos
cos
mdf
aze
mkd
glv
hat
tam
mai
lrc
roa-tara
ltg
nan
vol
aym
srn
cym
ina
vol
bcl
vep
rue
bpy
ltg
spa
sin
bel
xho
lao
pol
bel
eng
mri
lug
hbs
rup
bul
slv
cat
dan
jav
kin
mhr
tcy
swa
asm
khm
hrv
ina
por
roa-tara
ina
guj
mya
lad
bpy
pap
ile
als
ita
urd
nep
mhr
nrm
pam
war
nds
lav
isl
sqi
fur
stq
stq
jbo
mar
jbo
pus
tsn
myv
slk
slk
nds
crh
fur
olo
kan
kbd
hat
min
eus
sco
fra
kor
hbs
ckb
arg
div
lim
tur
frp
vol
bar
ace
rue
rus
swa
kat
hsb
swa
bul
nob
tam
vol
pap
lez
vls
scn
frp
spa
nds-nl
hye
rup
wln
als
aym
guj
ces
lin
est
cbk
ckb
pap
bcl
kin
cdo
pdc
arg
mai
div
ceb
csb
xho
ast
ara
ast
kat
bjn
ces
nap
por
koi
snd
oss
arg
fao
be-tarask
nds
nrm
lim
glg
tam
fin
mal
epo
tsn
fra
ton
dsb
ind
bel
fao
fao
sna
kaz
bar
bjn
oci
min
lmo
pap
frp
sin
udm
mya
kom
new
bar
mar
ibo
cor
fao
cdo
xho
tyv
jbo
vol
jav
yid
bxr
tur
frp
mon
slk
deu
aze
por
als
aze
spa
sqi
gag
bjn
ces
urd
ang
myv
nno
glk
krc
guj
che
grn
sna
slk
ell
udm
cbk
mlg
frp
aze
vep
nep
cos
afr
ind
tam
bul
pam
lit
cat
tha
koi
mar
fas
arg
mri
sin
ckb
snd
nno
pcd
ckb
cor
pfl
ibo
tam
eus
koi
war
kin
kor
mri
pfl
bpy
slk
sin
cos
eus
pan
est
tsn
rue
fas
nrm
hak
mhr
ukr
lez
lat
bpy
fin
sqi
xmf
lez
ita
kbd
nob
bul
kin
pdc
pnb
mkd
pus
fao
cym
new
hif
be-tarask
srd
kbd
hak
oss
pnb
bar
tel
mar
sco
bho
cor
isl
tyv
ell
pdc
khm
asm
tel
vls
fry
egl
mlt
orm
nds
nan
ori
udm
urd
lug
map-bms
fas
mhr
map-bms
ang
dan
map-bms
por
gle
ell
roh
afr
stq
kat
sna
mwl
ron
cat
tur
udm
ita
bre
sco
khm
hin
tgl
ces
kor
amh
bho
mlg
urd
hsb
wln
pan
olo
fra
srd
roh
mhr
nno
fra
koi
pcd
tyv
ton
mdf
khm
nno
tsn
amh
cbk
afr
fas
csb
nan
hak
koi
mai
vol
tcy
ckb
fra
glk
bho
nav
olo
hye
hbs
tat
fry
scn
ace
swe
lav
oci
ori
mlg
fry
pdc
dty
eng
mhr
mlg
ang
dan
ltg
nob
sin
arg
ara
pag
srd
ksh
hrv
hak
sna
oss
glk
koi
stq
scn
hye
glv
tgl
slv
map-bms
vie
lad
stq
oss
vie
khm
oci
ile
bho
ron
bod
bre
krc
urd
gla
xmf
vol
nso
lao
lim
ara
min
yid
yid
rup
nno
msa
cym
div
por
mya
jpn
mar
que
tgl
zea
fin
dty
pdc
hye
nav
olo
rup
lav
amh
pap
bar
oci
rup
wln
kat
sna
lim
tgl
fin
oss
urd
lad
xho
new
kin
nds
tgl
tha
lat
hif
bxr
xho
bre
swa
lrc
dsb
xmf
ibo
dty
lez
nob
mhr
sco
amh
mlg
mdf
cat
yid
bho
que
slv
asm
glk
dty
snd
orm
aym
xmf
glv
olo
cbk
ron
fra
pag
gla
mai
kin
dty
zea
gle
map-bms
mri
aym
tur
che
pfl
ceb
nan
dty
isl
pcd
bul
bod
hye
fin
tsn
que
mlg
nav
deu
afr
sgs
hun
lrc
ast
map-bms
nap
nds
xmf
srp
slv
rue
ast
jbo
nno
nno
sqi
crh
mhr
sin
lin
eus
new
dty
ron
nan
lit
tsn
vol
egl
kin
ava
cdo
nap
hye
san
isl
bjn
nav
bho
xho
ksh
map-bms
egl
ell
gag
kaz
grn
sna
be-tarask
kom
fao
hbs
wln
ava
bho
aze
que
cbk
pan
ext
kor
als
tet
kaz
arg
lat
kat
koi
que
che
nds-nl
lat
lin
tha
bre
map-bms
map-bms
cat
mon
olo
cat
sin
snd
tel
myv
ell
ina
ell
pcd
div
nob
nds
nds-nl
pnb
tgl
bul
sgs
xmf
lez
lao
ukr
tcy
mlt
vie
roa-tara
lrc
scn
ckb
wln
kan
afr
pap
gag
mlt
roa-tara
gag
war
nds-nl
myv
ton
stq
xmf
por
srd
slk
bul
map-bms
bho
lrc
isl
roh
sco
lit
kan
olo
guj
zea
be-tarask
guj
kbd
sgs
crh
kin
tet
slk
aym
pfl
bjn
nap
kor
por
ang
oss
lmo
est
tha
ace
new
gla
hun
ava
ibo
vep
orm
ron
nno
pag
nld
tet
kan
glk
guj
que
bcl
dan
pcd
lit
cos
spa
hun
vls
ukr
lug
lat
hat
gag
ace
lao
est
hun
kom
dan
vie
hrv
fao
gla
hun
gle
slv
min
hrv
slk
nob
hye
als
pan
che
hin
rus
udm
spa
sgs
mya
pus
ibo
ibo
mhr
als
eng
swa
be-tarask
aze
spa
tcy
pol
olo
ukr
ara
map-bms
deu
uig
amh
hif
ell
sin
egl
min
fin
hye
roh
que
lrc
urd
bre
uig
frp
ina
ron
tet
ang
pan
ori
tat
tsn
als
ell
roa-tara
bar
lmo
kin
mri
ltg
kan
uig
rue
bre
ibo
nav
aym
asm
khm
lav
crh
vls
ceb
urd
rue
glk
epo
cat
tur
tam
tet
srn
jpn
bjn
swe
oci
pcd
ton
vol
bpy
be-tarask
tsn
min
tet
sme
lin
eus
tel
fry
bar
ces
ron
kaz
srp
afr
fry
roh
srn
pap
hak
div
koi
vol
bul
csb
cdo
tsn
gla
vls
div
pam
mar
hun
nrm
nap
pag
mwl
asm
tur
ces
bre
pam
ang
sqi
aym
min
nld
csb
pag
sme
tsn
tsn
fao
myv
dan
lug
pdc
deu
bod
wln
gla
ast
lao
mkd
vls
che
amh
bre
mdf
nap
tcy
tel
mwl
ext
ukr
lim
ang
ace
min
fao
vol
bel
ces
nds
div
hye
ton
dan
jbo
sgs
ltg
mai
ton
epo
mdf
lmo
cat
pap
sqi
tel
bel
lmo
kin
ara
kan
epo
pam
lin
slv
frp
roh
deu
dan
aze
mwl
tet
ile
fur
pag
fra
mwl
tsn
xho
ell
egl
pnb
nds
ile
mlt
san
mlt
ton
srd
jav
fao
myv
sna
lao
epo
mai
ina
cor
als
bho
bre
aym
bxr
ksh
nob
tur
hbs
vol
ina
srp
guj
map-bms
pus
amh
uig
hif
aze
dty
min
gag
vep
yid
vol
kom
slv
div
cat
sme
tgl
lmo
dsb
mai
epo
epo
myv
hye
snd
lit
bpy
spa
olo
ori
pnb
ron
oci
csb
tur
nep
nav
por
urd
pan
cdo
spa
gle
hun
kbd
kaz
ina
tsn
tgl
slk
snd
vol
sco
lim
ext
bcl
msa
cdo
cbk
mlt
lug
nan
nap
csb
lrc
grn
tam
srn
lmo
oss
cdo
urd
glv
dty
hat
mwl
bpy
ori
pcd
eus
kor
roa-tara
ceb
lit
egl
hye
hbs
map-bms
mdf
mri
hbs
csb
spa
udm
nan
olo
ron
pap
mri
be-tarask
swe
pap
rup
por
frp
mal
sna
bjn
cym
hrv
cdo
fao
ell
guj
sqi
krc
pap
cbk
ces
est
ron
nrm
rup
new
slk
dan
cos
amh
ron
epo
nep
glk
khm
scn
mri
mlg
msa
fra
olo
tyv
rup
myv
jbo
lat
swa
ara
cos
mlt
ton
afr
bxr
nep
orm
ceb
ces
sin
aym
udm
tam
ibo
urd
xmf
hye
als
nep
urd
ang
kor
gag
vls
eus
nds
egl
ara
arg
be-tarask
hbs
olo
wln
afr
ton
sqi
nan
swa
mkd
ace
lav
krc
dan
div
mal
fra
mon
glg
hye
vls
tat
lat
roa-tara
cos
msa
isl
bcl
lug
ind
isl
wln
oss
mar
olo
mkd
pan
nav
ell
nds
hat
bod
orm
nob
kin
che
vep
rue
bre
vls
pnb
nno
lav
eng
rup
jbo
vie
urd
pan
wln
ina
sna
oss
egl
epo
slv
pam
ace
cdo
ell
epo
ile
egl
arg
tcy
new
pcd
bpy
kbd
jpn
lrc
pan
bre
nep
ace
div
hye
ceb
roh
roh
nds
glg
tcy
que
fao
lrc
mon
bul
srp
ara
nrm
min
grn
ceb
dan
vls
cdo
cos
ina
mri
ibo
dan
nan
msa
oci
kaz
tet
cos
vol
lad
ltg
glv
egl
hye
pap
ron
sco
lao
slv
nep
kaz
nso
vls
nno
cdo
crh
bxr
epo
ltg
arg
spa
wln
cbk
kom
nan
bel
tam
ava
mal
vie
ton
lit
por
lit
nld
kan
asm
swa
gag
fry
oci
nso
stq
hat
ori
slk
roh
hak
vls
afr
rue
pfl
guj
fry
vls
mri
als
tyv
min
bxr
frp
mhr
arg
ace
kaz
lao
cat
asm
cdo
bcl
ron
nrm
tel
aym
nrm
sgs
swa
aze
sin
pfl
tsn
pag
lat
cbk
ibo
oci
lao
cat
zea
tsn
be-tarask
be-tarask
mar
gag
tam
ind
nso
pap
nav
lad
vol
koi
deu
scn
fur
scn
mwl
pag
por
vls
cbk
ltg
deu
aym
ile
fry
pol
glg
mdf
cym
pap
bpy
hak
map-bms
tur
lmo
kin
fao
cos
kor
asm
mya
lez
kan
ile
cor
che
guj
vol
lmo
hif
eng
ace
jpn
srp
hye
nds-nl
hye
snd
min
orm
pcd
grn
swe
arg
pag
vep
nds
ara
eng
mai
hye
cdo
sme
vol
rup
crh
cym
nno
kor
roa-tara
pam
xho
aym
vep
dan
sco
kom
swe
aym
cbk
yid
uig
als
roa-tara
tat
ava
tat
fry
pap
crh
por
cos
ori
sqi
srd
hin
ile
bxr
lez
hye
rup
div
tsn
koi
nob
glg
vol
ksh
bho
lao
kor
mdf
tcy
ext
bjn
lez
epo
krc
ext
nap
hrv
hbs
hrv
mal
lat
ell
epo
deu
myv
ckb
wln
dty
kat
spa
mdf
vie
xmf
wln
sqi
amh
srp
oss
oss
tat
srn
est
tgl
tet
rus
bpy
vep
mar
lad
swe
lez
map-bms
lmo
lug
jpn
xmf
tam
swa
pcd
kat
bxr
tcy
aze
sco
myv
ara
eus
nap
nav
koi
cat
lat
be-tarask
hrv
glv
egl
scn
deu
als
ext
gla
fas
mlg
xho
stq
kin
tur
jav
hin
hsb
cym
ile
fry
khm
bcl
nan
spa
lav
pfl
vls
cym
cat
lad
cdo
fur
jpn
nep
srd
be-tarask
nap
pap
rup
srd
bod
eng
vep
sqi
srn
bel
bho
mlt
tha
koi
als
fra
ibo
amh
orm
bho
hbs
deu
yid
yid
koi
swa
bar
lin
hsb
cym
lmo
frp
srd
lav
cor
pap
frp
egl
sin
egl
pdc
tel
est
crh
glk
sgs
tam
cos
roh
bul
be-tarask
hak
tel
hye
nrm
nan
stq
spa
ace
cos
jpn
dsb
nap
mkd
cos
ltg
nob
tet
cym
eng
mkd
lav
kin
oss
bre
mkd
fra
egl
bjn
ces
yid
vep
tat
tam
deu
cym
mai
sin
myv
srp
ina
ceb
gla
pus
hsb
egl
kor
aze
kom
arg
fao
zea
bre
pol
xho
sco
mlg
koi
afr
bar
san
srp
msa
ceb
che
xho
por
crh
glg
hin
gla
vie
aym
uig
cor
pdc
fao
ton
bpy
snd
nso
pdc
kaz
slv
nap
kin
swe
cos
udm
vls
hbs
crh
oci
uig
lin
mdf
pan
tel
glk
fra
hsb
rue
glk
ast
bho
pap
frp
ita
ton
ltg
rue
nob
san
mar
lim
uig
lmo
srd
lin
mya
ind
nep
srn
san
slk
ton
map-bms
slv
mwl
dsb
xmf
fra
lat
afr
hsb
tha
epo
cbk
olo
lin
lad
tam
snd
xmf
nap
aze
frp
ton
cbk
pam
mkd
sme
div
ell
nno
nob
asm
fao
deu
ron
pfl
frp
mlg
frp
deu
deu
ast
che
sgs
srp
nap
aze
lat
bpy
frp
mlt
mar
lug
deu
lat
orm
glv
hbs
ita
dty
hrv
wln
map-bms
por
sqi
nds
ast
pus
pol
vls
lez
nno
tsn
ita
bre
cor
lat
fra
mwl
sna
stq
jav
bpy
pus
ava
tet
nan
sgs
est
fur
nrm
nds-nl
ltg
khm
glg
orm
lez
zea
rus
bre
ces
aym
hsb
sin
wln
rup
mlg
tha
frp
slv
pag
nno
lrc
ksh
sme
jav
sme
eus
yid
rue
bre
ron
nav
xho
dan
nld
scn
bcl
cor
nav
dsb
por
hif
ron
lmo
frp
cdo
slv
krc
bar
nld
dsb
lav
als
sqi
bho
vep
bre
ibo
mal
hsb
ina
ang
oss
bxr
amh
snd
tgl
aze
sco
ron
eus
lug
deu
cos
mri
hbs
pag
ind
hrv
kan
kat
mar
che
kan
wln
spa
glv
hbs
war
aym
eus
swa
gla
cos
div
sgs
gla
stq
mar
ton
nob
bre
olo
fas
ltg
nds-nl
ibo
mdf
pam
eng
nso
tcy
deu
kom
mwl
ita
wln
hat
pam
pan
aze
dsb
mkd
ces
fur
ton
pap
ksh
bul
kaz
nep
bel
nob
nso
srp
be-tarask
mri
kaz
dty
mya
kat
nob
kat
bpy
ksh
bcl
kor
yid
lrc
tgl
ltg
xho
amh
mdf
ron
sme
nap
kaz
nap
tam
sqi
stq
be-tarask
pol
tat
eus
glg
guj
deu
nds
bcl
khm
tet
amh
bjn
olo
msa
lug
pnb
sin
lav
ang
isl
mal
nrm
por
oci
tur
lmo
gag
ckb
epo
che
frp
swa
als
hin
tur
kin
jav
lrc
afr
cor
wln
nno
deu
new
guj
cdo
lav
ori
gle
bjn
ukr
vie
nds
tat
vls
wln
vol
que
che
sna
sin
deu
nds
pfl
ori
cos
que
slv
gla
hif
nno
sco
swa
swe
fra
hbs
mal
pap
swa
slv
ron
oci
jpn
eng
mal
tsn
mdf
srn
vol
ina
rus
pnb
be-tarask
isl
ron
jav
sco
ang
asm
eng
bcl
nav
lav
pdc
ind
crh
bpy
lao
uig
kor
mlt
ori
bar
lin
oss
wln
vol
roa-tara
tcy
pam
dsb
ace
vol
oci
aym
lim
be-tarask
bar
glg
aym
eng
eus
tet
epo
lad
mlg
vep
wln
por
lug
ina
kor
tel
tat
olo
eus
kom
div
kat
lmo
sco
bjn
khm
guj
eus
eng
lao
por
lad
pap
tel
afr
mai
csb
hif
krc
myv
aym
tcy
sme
pcd
vls
mar
ceb
pnb
tgl
tet
bcl
hin
gag
glv
fas
xho
ton
fao
min
ina
cdo
lug
deu
bre
gle
xho
nap
che
ang
tur
ell
nep
mwl
new
mal
tyv
nso
dsb
lat
krc
ina
hif
mlg
tat
cor
kan
koi
por
fra
nds
bre
mai
swe
ton
tha
vls
mai
kor
roh
ell
mai
hak
mdf
sna
uig
mal
ace
lmo
hye
mon
est
mya
mal
ara
ile
amh
oss
cdo
ori
rus
nld
als
urd
pfl
nld
eng
ltg
be-tarask
ton
sco
tam
new
glg
koi
swa
tur
ara
pdc
bod
aze
ile
mdf
bxr
mon
lmo
ckb
div
cbk
uig
mon
pcd
ile
ltg
gag
vep
hun
kaz
hat
ace
tsn
ast
tam
rue
lez
bxr
snd
aym
nso
amh
dan
srp
bod
kaz
hbs
ceb
mal
tat
nan
map-bms
krc
sco
nld
pag
mal
ang
tam
cos
hbs
cbk
ita
pcd
lao
sme
cor
oci
bjn
isl
jpn
lat
urd
ori
tat
nap
pcd
crh
ltg
uig
kom
koi
pag
snd
crh
bcl
aym
als
orm
pol
fra
kor
cbk
srd
bcl
roh
ext
sin
new
lit
ltg
est
krc
khm
rus
olo
hrv
xmf
khm
lad
pam
myv
wln
pcd
crh
ltg
cdo
sin
est
pfl
map-bms
glk
sco
bpy
jpn
est
grn
deu
rue
ava
cbk
pfl
srn
ast
bjn
roh
ltg
nso
lrc
cbk
pol
tam
sqi
war
ina
csb
lin
nav
bho
rup
rus
rup
hin
dty
olo
lin
nav
vol
srp
bpy
isl
rue
rup
lug
mon
bar
war
oci
ava
eus
vol
roa-tara
lat
pap
tet
ron
nob
dty
bho
vie
cym
nso
bre
dty
tsn
dan
frp
hbs
glv
lin
tet
vep
ksh
bjn
egl
asm
lit
oss
nep
stq
roa-tara
grn
pnb
sgs
hif
mlt
cbk
be-tarask
ron
cor
tsn
new
ara
che
zea
rus
pcd
be-tarask
pol
vie
khm
mdf
sme
swe
ang
wln
new
rus
ara
orm
hrv
stq
ext
lao
frp
gle
sgs
map-bms
slk
cos
yid
ext
fao
pus
ava
hye
afr
lmo
war
uig
lat
udm
lav
afr
hye
bpy
gag
cat
cat
hbs
nno
nds-nl
kor
egl
swe
ace
bel
eus
kbd
mlg
cdo
nan
uig
koi
san
ang
fry
san
mri
nap
fur
myv
hin
tsn
nav
mdf
mkd
roh
rue
nob
myv
mya
eng
kat
mkd
kaz
spa
myv
kom
ava
aze
ind
pag
kor
ckb
als
nno
lit
nld
nds
ara
lit
srp
min
ltg
ext
hbs
hin
crh
krc
mwl
deu
tgl
nob
ksh
aym
kbd
fur
new
udm
oss
fao
sme
nep
pfl
bpy
bre
slv
cym
cor
lit
oss
mwl
khm
bar
roa-tara
map-bms
lez
nap
tat
kaz
ast
deu
als
jav
swe
bod
aym
be-tarask
pap
dsb
mya
hat
sin
yid
rue
cat
lug
kat
ita
lmo
ast
myv
jpn
bpy
nno
tgl
gle
bar
bjn
sna
dsb
jbo
rue
mri
srn
nso
spa
bod
hun
tha
roa-tara
myv
aze
aym
uig
grn
glk
ron
que
rup
tur
hat
udm
bar
ile
ita
bod
cat
nap
tam
mlg
tsn
ton
ksh
hif
ori
ara
tcy
hat
ace
tur
ibo
hat
bho
div
amh
jbo
tel
msa
scn
hbs
fur
fao
hrv
mhr
vep
vep
stq
urd
lat
lin
als
asm
egl
dan
vls
hun
nso
gla
nds
ara
tel
lez
fin
lav
roa-tara
rue
nso
tgl
als
cat
nld
bpy
fur
rue
mal
pam
min
vol
rue
ava
frp
lad
dty
nno
koi
kom
aym
nep
ext
rup
cbk
jbo
tam
udm
nds-nl
ita
pdc
als
gag
srp
bel
dsb
new
hak
pus
nds
kbd
ton
lat
bpy
nds
ast
nan
war
tur
amh
amh
eng
mdf
nrm
mdf
cdo
ori
sna
map-bms
dty
hye
xho
bod
tgl
vie
cos
glg
scn
sgs
bpy
ell
nep
frp
amh
bcl
nep
tat
bod
mhr
hrv
bul
asm
lav
nds
als
sin
mdf
est
hsb
est
new
fao
myv
cdo
gle
mri
bul
hsb
bar
sqi
snd
kor
nap
roh
ext
kin
sgs
bjn
ang
eus
vie
roa-tara
glk
pdc
msa
cdo
jpn
tha
ukr
kat
glv
nan
aze
dsb
nob
tcy
ile
mhr
lad
be-tarask
lin
sqi
guj
dsb
bel
tsn
ori
scn
epo
div
ace
deu
srp
ita
oci
slv
guj
bul
sqi
pap
dan
hin
krc
yid
tyv
map-bms
als
pan
min
srd
pan
tam
fur
hin
cor
tgl
mai
spa
amh
che
nan
pfl
que
slk
sin
bul
mdf
rus
mwl
ksh
ara
mhr
krc
sme
ang
bjn
nds-nl
ina
cor
bod
lug
mya
tur
cbk
guj
mhr
lez
fra
fry
hye
ang
nep
swe
hrv
bcl
lrc
oss
ukr
mai
uig
srn
scn
sco
bel
pdc
min
srd
bho
ltg
spa
ron
sgs
pap
new
srn
xmf
mlg
mhr
fra
csb
hin
kor
pam
sme
mlt
sco
ckb
glk
tet
srd
ksh
pol
xho
olo
scn
tgl
lmo
tyv
uig
be-tarask
ukr
pan
hbs
nso
lrc
ibo
new
lav
asm
tam
kan
epo
dsb
pap
ast
xmf
nap
pnb
sin
mwl
lez
xmf
kbd
por
amh
ava
map-bms
pag
hak
lrc
ceb
hun
lad
ces
pfl
tam
stq
khm
por
jpn
kin
hrv
grn
map-bms
tet
ile
lao
arg
vol
lin
kan
hin
bpy
hye
mkd
ace
pus
zea
lmo
cor
mlt
ksh
srn
ace
sna
epo
que
nds-nl
div
scn
bcl
rue
asm
rue
kin
cor
ext
jbo
csb
pan
xmf
roh
bar
lao
san
bho
tam
rue
eus
bxr
hin
slv
xho
cbk
swa
fur
map-bms
nep
bar
bjn
gag
nob
hrv
bar
ang
lat
por
tet
oss
new
vls
bod
frp
tsn
ksh
urd
slk
ceb
hrv
ast
tet
csb
hin
mlt
lez
ton
cat
glv
ksh
ksh
isl
cdo
slk
lao
ace
mhr
hat
kaz
bcl
bar
oss
new
nso
yid
ceb
est
isl
fra
rup
ava
mri
fra
cym
lrc
hye
be-tarask
lit
pnb
sin
tet
ces
roa-tara
ces
lav
lav
hat
fra
cym
mhr
tel
fas
olo
uig
kaz
cbk
oss
amh
vol
nap
div
sco
ces
dty
kin
amh
sgs
dty
fas
hye
ava
ext
ina
als
kan
bjn
khm
sco
be-tarask
ori
map-bms
fra
aym
hye
be-tarask
egl
als
urd
lit
pcd
olo
ara
cbk
nan
be-tarask
ltg
fin
ast
hak
ckb
mkd
stq
gle
kor
kat
ksh
gag
glg
pnb
mai
ukr
kat
ace
ton
que
kaz
bpy
epo
ceb
kan
hif
vie
yid
sme
nav
sme
cos
lrc
mkd
div
ext
tgl
kor
afr
mal
eng
fin
urd
bho
est
amh
lit
mya
hun
lav
olo
slk
nav
ava
hrv
lit
kbd
nds-nl
mlg
xmf
ksh
dan
kin
min
ext
ckb
arg
fao
asm
bul
tur
nld
hin
lim
fin
kaz
lug
cdo
sgs
nob
lit
lim
fao
min
cos
pus
fur
hif
ron
slv
pam
deu
ast
ina
gla
sme
nav
xho
lin
oss
aym
kin
cbk
tat
lrc
mon
xho
epo
ibo
glg
hat
sgs
lav
div
san
tgl
nan
hrv
ton
ile
fin
pol
tet
dsb
bjn
ukr
glv
srd
lez
kat
kan
mdf
nan
lit
yid
mkd
tyv
nap
pdc
lad
arg
mdf
orm
lat
grn
mlt
ile
mkd
fry
que
kbd
kbd
wln
gla
hat
eus
tha
slv
sna
mya
lrc
zea
eus
fry
mwl
fin
mai
map-bms
krc
pag
pnb
fas
gle
kat
vol
glv
tha
roh
rup
guj
stq
xho
vol
lez
ckb
div
tat
hsb
bxr
hrv
mhr
mlt
ltg
tam
nap
rup
crh
be-tarask
ast
oci
mal
wln
sna
grn
hat
amh
tsn
uig
fry
sqi
hak
urd
mdf
cbk
ava
koi
tyv
gla
cos
tat
swa
bel
pan
hbs
tyv
hye
div
lad
cdo
aym
grn
tur
lmo
bod
srd
ind
fao
tgl
arg
bel
tha
bpy
xho
ton
glv
lat
wln
sgs
mai
lez
kat
ita
kbd
pus
jpn
bho
kaz
lim
cdo
ita
lad
eus
stq
nob
tat
lat
mai
jbo
fur
bho
lrc
orm
kor
map-bms
nno
hye
fry
ace
cat
bxr
sna
koi
hak
guj
vie
lat
oss
tcy
ltg
swa
ind
wln
pag
roa-tara
rue
bre
div
glk
mwl
deu
glv
sme
koi
war
rus
oss
pam
fin
vol
oss
sqi
kaz
vep
mkd
eng
ltg
slk
nds-nl
cdo
mal
pdc
fas
tyv
kan
oss
orm
lmo
sco
ind
bel
aym
gla
bjn
be-tarask
pol
grn
snd
olo
epo
nno
tet
que
csb
nds-nl
ukr
glv
vep
ron
lav
nob
mai
lrc
bho
ibo
min
krc
aym
ace
ext
bjn
dty
bel
be-tarask
hif
map-bms
grn
ell
san
tgl
glg
ang
dan
pag
olo
rus
ksh
nds-nl
war
ind
ext
aym
koi
cbk
oci
kbd
hrv
orm
yid
est
swa
udm
xho
ukr
als
mdf
jav
mya
lav
sgs
che
kat
cbk
lad
ibo
ksh
lav
mlg
hak
pus
bod
rue
cym
che
dan
hbs
ces
lin
nep
rup
lit
be-tarask
crh
csb
lez
slv
tgl
tcy
map-bms
als
nan
be-tarask
map-bms
lit
tat
scn
fry
che
kom
eng
mal
vep
krc
bar
che
ind
oss
vol
hun
sco
nds
tam
snd
bpy
pam
lrc
olo
bcl
jbo
fry
lat
sin
ces
swa
ile
tel
tsn
sco
tat
bul
mon
tgl
msa
gla
cos
tsn
aze
bar
hbs
tur
slv
lim
tam
pam
div
tur
kin
sna
mon
sco
tsn
amh
bel
ace
xho
ast
egl
tsn
koi
hak
eng
bre
tam
glg
egl
hun
pfl
ckb
kbd
eng
gag
glg
ara
guj
pnb
mkd
mkd
tha
ltg
ceb
bul
pfl
swe
mal
aze
orm
hif
pfl
ron
tet
jpn
mon
cor
rus
bcl
urd
lmo
mar
bpy
cat
grn
hin
gag
por
fas
vls
bre
tam
tet
mya
lim
est
gag
nrm
tur
rup
nap
san
hbs
ile
lmo
gag
cbk
hif
frp
asm
bxr
afr
ava
asm
ckb
mwl
mal
lez
ara
spa
tyv
sco
ksh
cos
lit
war
eus
vep
san
srd
hin
hin
lin
ind
zea
nld
kom
pus
nno
map-bms
pdc
kaz
lin
aze
tyv
afr
hun
sin
wln
frp
nrm
pol
bar
mkd
epo
ori
bul
sin
glv
olo
cos
ile
ext
swa
jbo
bre
spa
vie
ext
tur
ukr
pcd
ell
ltg
mar
myv
ltg
msa
fra
orm
hat
pap
san
pcd
lim
khm
oci
sme
fao
pdc
lav
bcl
kan
deu
war
msa
lug
pap
ton
cbk
afr
gla
mkd
vep
mar
gag
lrc
orm
sco
che
roh
lin
glv
arg
slv
jav
ara
myv
snd
ina
fra
bpy
afr
lim
ibo
nds-nl
bre
frp
ang
bel
mal
oss
ltg
hif
est
tha
ast
new
kor
fin
tgl
ceb
oss
kat
als
guj
tel
cat
amh
aze
snd
new
map-bms
ton
mlt
sgs
snd
fur
mlt
guj
slv
gag
nds-nl
jav
nld
cat
tha
arg
san
vep
pap
swe
sna
hat
cor
oci
ckb
ast
glv
mlt
dsb
mlg
msa
scn
ron
ang
jpn
bpy
mkd
csb
nan
lat
cor
que
orm
kom
ces
mai
kat
pus
est
mai
vie
ell
yid
mon
mon
kat
yid
est
kat
ind
pfl
pap
kaz
nld
als
nep
bpy
afr
kor
ile
hrv
nso
fur
hat
tet
wln
pag
new
mar
als
fas
lez
glk
bod
nld
vep
ckb
tat
lav
pap
ces
mai
urd
khm
sgs
pfl
fin
fur
mon
srp
nap
jpn
cos
xho
uig
mai
urd
glg
new
lmo
dty
krc
new
ara
orm
jbo
tcy
kin
tet
gag
mri
gle
eng
mon
ukr
mwl
tat
vol
ile
asm
cdo
min
xmf
tcy
lao
hrv
cdo
lad
xmf
hin
ile
gle
ksh
fur
hye
glk
cbk
be-tarask
bul
fry
olo
bjn
xho
frp
ind
nds-nl
lat
ina
ara
mdf
hsb
jpn
hbs
bul
cbk
pcd
bel
sme
por
bpy
new
isl
nan
hye
pap
pan
slk
cos
tet
ckb
ita
ava
mal
scn
lao
ara
tel
dan
cbk
bcl
srd
ltg
cym
lmo
ace
mal
sin
nds-nl
fry
bul
sin
tsn
nld
tha
pag
rup
cym
mlg
sme
ltg
rup
uig
hif
stq
ltg
san
roa-tara
nno
olo
bjn
oss
tam
nap
urd
oci
ara
mkd
ang
bho
hak
khm
bpy
gag
ksh
mdf
jbo
ara
kom
guj
tcy
guj
kbd
lav
nan
frp
fry
als
scn
uig
roa-tara
sgs
lez
bre
als
jbo
pdc
nap
vls
pus
tat
bpy
mlt
lav
vie
nob
lit
tur
que
lav
hrv
egl
snd
hin
fur
khm
bul
nno
ksh
lmo
hrv
tgl
rup
glg
new
mal
min
ind
nob
kor
pfl
lit
ast
lit
sqi
vie
msa
bre
slv
wln
snd
ext
afr
ori
kaz
oci
tam
vol
bre
afr
san
dan
bar
bar
als
aym
lez
ace
arg
che
mai
crh
krc
pap
fra
mhr
gag
mhr
ori
ton
epo
ace
bho
nav
kbd
udm
urd
mar
fry
hbs
sin
isl
yid
nso
kor
bpy
eus
aym
krc
dsb
spa
mlt
ckb
hin
srn
pan
asm
pus
lav
oss
nrm
pfl
hin
yid
bel
pag
kan
pfl
mar
swe
nrm
ton
khm
hye
ara
nap
mlt
wln
mai
khm
bpy
mya
uig
nav
ton
srd
glv
scn
bho
min
uig
frp
rus
hin
vls
rup
sna
ukr
guj
hak
lad
asm
rus
que
kin
ava
eus
lim
glk
pfl
als
jbo
deu
hak
gla
nld
nap
fas
pus
isl
ton
bxr
tgl
nrm
sme
new
hif
crh
ara
olo
nep
nso
bre
cym
csb
pol
hbs
est
mri
war
amh
gag
zea
amh
bpy
cat
rus
egl
ron
lit
mri
nld
cor
rue
fra
srn
eus
sqi
kbd
be-tarask
lad
vol
cym
roa-tara
bar
xmf
ang
xmf
mar
sqi
wln
new
pdc
pcd
oci
vie
nrm
mal
fra
lav
hsb
tcy
nds-nl
gag
fao
aze
nap
mdf
nap
wln
rue
mkd
fry
vol
ksh
fao
hif
tet
myv
pdc
war
stq
pol
ksh
sme
kor
div
aym
rup
slv
ell
ava
new
nld
stq
swa
mai
nep
por
ibo
aym
glk
mar
mya
tcy
jav
hat
cat
jbo
mar
tel
cdo
mri
kin
slv
vep
csb
eng
fry
stq
sco
bho
est
tam
hye
deu
pnb
tcy
kan
tet
gle
jpn
cor
amh
lmo
bod
myv
bul
lrc
scn
xmf
pfl
vie
pag
pan
lim
nso
roh
srp
myv
ina
afr
ace
mar
rus
nep
srp
mya
pcd
bho
que
bho
pcd
mya
pam
pfl
tha
que
be-tarask
gag
rup
srd
bxr
mal
nno
ces
ukr
rup
mri
tsn
nep
tet
new
msa
mlg
glg
lug
csb
che
bho
jbo
ast
ind
hif
mya
mlt
ast
sco
dty
lat
nav
csb
hbs
hak
ckb
nrm
hun
ton
rus
guj
roh
fas
hat
mdf
roh
hif
hsb
mri
myv
afr
nob
sgs
hin
aym
div
mar
arg
als
min
tyv
kor
gle
ori
rue
nrm
mya
glv
dsb
hrv
cdo
san
bod
tsn
bcl
rus
ltg
mal
pam
nap
kaz
urd
hrv
lao
ori
als
mar
hin
vep
mal
bjn
glv
fao
lrc
tgl
sco
lao
tha
arg
nan
oci
vol
kbd
stq
be-tarask
sna
jpn
kat
pag
hye
est
vie
pap
oss
snd
kin
map-bms
guj
egl
glv
kom
isl
kaz
be-tarask
nno
nob
fin
tyv
krc
aze
bjn
fas
orm
jbo
ita
bel
xmf
dsb
ava
guj
kom
rus
udm
frp
sgs
krc
que
pcd
rup
cym
nap
sna
khm
zea
vls
krc
nob
bpy
mkd
tam
nno
bul
bpy
scn
lav
koi
cat
oss
bjn
srp
vep
ksh
lao
koi
grn
deu
div
roh
mlg
bod
ceb
que
aze
glg
pol
mal
pdc
pdc
vie
zea
tha
nep
ori
pdc
tel
uig
tcy
olo
roh
lav
lao
ltg
lat
jbo
ltg
dty
ceb
swe
mhr
uig
csb
sme
che
mlg
glk
ast
tat
srd
wln
bod
hat
san
tgl
fur
snd
nav
jpn
san
fur
sin
nds
hif
udm
ext
dsb
mdf
sna
che
mkd
mwl
jav
swe
tat
yid
mwl
kbd
ksh
srd
nob
mlt
pfl
bul
khm
hak
ara
hak
sgs
fao
myv
lim
nds-nl
pan
nob
pag
tgl
oss
slk
vie
dty
tam
sqi
bxr
udm
spa
fra
hak
cat
mkd
vls
cor
oss
nso
snd
aze
cdo
ast
cbk
bel
cym
mwl
slv
nan
afr
slv
swe
pnb
nan
ita
hun
pnb
wln
scn
tgl
cor
myv
vls
msa
ell
ksh
pag
bre
udm
lao
fra
cdo
ces
ind
por
nrm
isl
ara
pap
isl
nan
gla
olo
ast
bcl
deu
ext
kor
lin
bcl
kom
urd
kom
pan
tcy
san
tur
csb
roh
egl
egl
be-tarask
fin
por
mai
mri
hbs
tel
frp
lug
pam
lit
kbd
hat
hye
spa
lrc
nds-nl
new
nob
srn
sna
hak
ang
mkd
myv
fin
crh
kbd
cdo
msa
uig
san
ckb
scn
tsn
bcl
pdc
swa
mya
hsb
glv
ibo
yid
urd
wln
tet
sqi
guj
slv
ibo
nds
min
tet
mwl
ltg
hye
ind
srp
pol
eng
lav
ace
kin
msa
kaz
ckb
ckb
pag
sin
stq
udm
pag
rus
krc
khm
mai
slv
fin
gla
che
sgs
mlg
nav
zea
rue
xmf
rup
vls
nds-nl
lmo
dsb
pcd
bre
bho
stq
kor
crh
bul
nap
mri
kin
nob
che
nds
cym
hak
srn
lin
oci
lmo
mwl
ceb
lat
hin
scn
kbd
kin
zea
khm
san
oss
ace
slk
kbd
kaz
fra
xmf
sna
pap
cbk
mal
lrc
roa-tara
war
kan
roh
tcy
glk
sco
fra
crh
eng
ibo
lit
ita
fas
tam
rup
hun
hsb
fin
gle
bho
glk
sco
ukr
slk
lin
srd
kat
als
fry
sgs
dsb
ang
bjn
fas
sqi
mal
udm
mhr
fin
arg
als
cym
gle
hin
fas
sgs
dan
xho
amh
ava
be-tarask
ava
fin
lmo
csb
fin
tam
nap
scn
ltg
bre
nan
msa
roh
sna
koi
egl
grn
nav
wln
hin
mlg
cdo
rus
nrm
koi
dty
isl
orm
nep
cat
pfl
bho
lat
oci
por
arg
srp
ceb
mkd
ita
myv
ace
csb
pus
mri
stq
pol
fra
stq
jpn
swe
ckb
gla
kat
bho
ibo
xho
fao
als
nep
mhr
afr
ind
pus
bjn
wln
kom
udm
sgs
pam
tet
bar
fao
hrv
pan
fin
mdf
mwl
spa
kom
arg
nrm
bho
rup
mar
msa
ceb
ltg
ara
tsn
cos
slk
pnb
lrc
kan
stq
ast
mya
mdf
ton
arg
jpn
hin
afr
hat
gag
oci
glg
xho
kat
mal
nob
lug
mri
nso
aym
olo
mri
hif
roh
vep
oci
ind
tur
tyv
glk
mri
mri
rue
dty
hbs
fry
wln
rue
stq
dsb
hun
oss
lao
mri
bel
hun
ckb
als
mwl
hbs
sgs
roh
kat
ind
tam
nrm
ara
isl
ibo
lez
hat
mai
oss
fin
pus
kan
arg
lao
tat
ind
deu
udm
nds
afr
lmo
jbo
tyv
ext
glg
cor
srd
snd
dty
mlg
hbs
pus
lmo
kin
zea
tyv
new
ara
ind
san
ron
sco
que
mar
bcl
sco
isl
oss
vep
bpy
slk
che
ron
hye
lao
afr
hin
tcy
nob
aym
dan
mwl
ksh
swa
kat
khm
kaz
spa
hye
fra
als
dty
ton
srd
bar
ace
rue
yid
div
nav
vls
zea
lad
hin
dan
slk
oci
mri
ltg
mlt
egl
cat
pan
zea
mkd
pdc
vep
udm
lim
kat
bod
tur
hsb
vls
rup
sin
ell
san
nep
slv
ksh
lim
uig
bre
tcy
cat
hbs
ukr
ara
udm
ext
hat
que
ext
ibo
pnb
tat
tgl
mon
bho
bcl
kaz
ace
hat
pus
amh
vie
glk
gle
new
ast
new
kaz
pap
tet
jpn
div
map-bms
roh
glv
tam
pcd
fra
urd
nap
csb
slk
sgs
mlg
nso
bul
cdo
map-bms
mhr
ckb
bjn
mri
yid
rus
bpy
arg
bpy
snd
cor
deu
jpn
bod
udm
srp
ell
ibo
gle
hin
slk
ava
xmf
che
guj
aze
mhr
lad
che
gle
tsn
lez
bcl
srp
por
bxr
urd
dsb
roa-tara
xmf
slk
que
tet
fas
guj
pam
war
glg
tgl
ava
ind
ces
tyv
ori
tur
hrv
rue
srd
kbd
guj
gag
que
ace
amh
ace
ltg
sco
vol
eng
tcy
afr
hun
aym
kbd
mlt
pnb
yid
mai
spa
oci
nds
gle
nrm
vol
spa
dty
srp
hbs
che
glk
ksh
nav
lrc
cdo
glg
slk
lit
snd
bxr
min
nso
ina
ibo
oci
ita
ava
cat
lit
sgs
srd
tcy
ind
ile
roh
guj
hin
afr
amh
kom
urd
glk
bod
myv
nan
asm
sme
hbs
ces
fry
lit
pap
roh
oci
als
tha
lrc
pam
tgl
sgs
udm
pfl
aze
swa
wln
oci
bre
tel
nds
glv
pcd
be-tarask
ukr
lat
epo
lin
pcd
roa-tara
fao
cym
ile
kin
sqi
ckb
guj
pan
xmf
bel
urd
sgs
srn
snd
cdo
hrv
bho
ukr
cat
map-bms
eus
arg
jav
khm
gle
tcy
egl
sco
san
jpn
aze
lug
est
eng
oci
ara
ori
hun
kin
arg
koi
fao
afr
crh
ava
pnb
sin
cor
fin
hsb
tcy
che
tel
ukr
urd
sna
kan
lug
gag
pan
cos
rus
new
deu
ksh
bre
kom
yid
tel
hak
eng
tur
hif
ext
nav
frp
rus
mri
cat
pcd
srd
cor
pnb
oss
csb
nep
war
mri
mon
asm
deu
fao
dsb
lav
pan
fao
vep
cat
myv
hat
pag
glg
por
fry
cor
srd
san
udm
bar
pcd
dty
lmo
oss
cbk
deu
pap
ile
mal
ell
ile
roh
che
cbk
lin
gla
gla
olo
bjn
hif
stq
egl
jav
asm
mya
tcy
nap
ile
hin
frp
mwl
lug
sqi
nan
aze
dty
sin
cor
cos
bul
scn
tgl
nno
ind
jav
bel
lmo
swa
ltg
sin
tet
tsn
frp
pam
ibo
tet
rus
srd
glk
crh
ita
kan
jav
krc
dty
asm
sin
ast
swa
nds-nl
lim
udm
lez
grn
dsb
min
xmf
ell
dan
ell
ltg
hun
urd
xmf
udm
csb
pan
gla
tat
hak
ukr
tam
wln
msa
mya
stq
cor
mya
jpn
pam
srn
tam
ang
ibo
lin
kin
pag
be-tarask
yid
isl
ton
gla
pus
fur
fur
yid
pam
sgs
snd
pag
swe
ina
jav
orm
sme
tyv
rus
sna
tam
srd
nds
scn
nld
mar
kbd
ina
bpy
dty
roa-tara
olo
srp
glv
vol
tyv
war
nds
kaz
grn
xmf
ava
egl
xmf
gag
aze
kor
epo
ile
dty
kbd
pap
isl
lrc
bod
fur
swe
que
als
wln
udm
pap
rus
dan
nap
srd
rue
hrv
nds
ile
ibo
kin
cym
jav
kin
glk
mya
lim
bpy
bpy
mkd
ace
gag
olo
por
mal
amh
ltg
hin
zea
cat
lao
sme
ron
arg
frp
hin
aze
ceb
krc
glk
msa
krc
ces
ace
ina
mri
jav
tha
bul
sco
lez
afr
div
pap
kat
swe
ceb
swe
fur
ron
cos
eng
slv
lit
ace
rup
lmo
uig
zea
hsb
che
glg
que
pcd
nrm
mlt
rue
pol
fry
lat
uig
lez
pam
por
bar
lav
ceb
hin
tam
mlt
lug
cat
mya
por
rup
ces
tyv
kor
hif
nrm
vep
dsb
kaz
lrc
ckb
fao
isl
jav
tyv
kin
spa
frp
vol
ang
por
bar
glg
pcd
lin
snd
pnb
nan
ina
mai
hye
khm
gle
mai
hin
nno
ces
fas
ell
urd
kin
roa-tara
bul
cat
nld
ceb
pag
ind
vie
lmo
lmo
bre
hin
nep
nds-nl
kat
lat
isl
egl
hak
tyv
isl
ace
uig
ibo
mlg
rup
wln
bxr
roh
crh
scn
hye
eng
tgl
pag
rue
ile
spa
bre
egl
glg
tur
bre
slv
fra
swe
bxr
khm
lez
crh
bar
rus
mhr
grn
sin
sgs
sin
glv
new
ast
xho
csb
cym
gla
lez
tel
bar
tsn
sgs
lat
ces
bxr
fao
ind
nob
jav
xho
afr
nep
lat
xmf
srn
krc
vls
roh
fao
ces
bul
jbo
hsb
gle
lao
fry
fas
afr
div
san
mwl
jav
mal
bpy
sqi
fin
isl
pan
koi
fra
lez
san
srd
hak
grn
pap
pag
hat
vep
amh
slv
dsb
jav
lrc
pdc
slk
new
srd
uig
hsb
eus
epo
vie
hye
guj
ast
mkd
fao
bpy
ind
hun
sgs
mkd
tcy
pus
bjn
mya
cdo
guj
bel
hat
fin
sme
che
cat
cor
mlg
lrc
arg
mhr
grn
roa-tara
roh
mdf
hbs
orm
war
mal
sin
ita
fas
sna
uig
lim
lad
tat
epo
rue
dty
gag
tet
pdc
pan
mdf
hye
gla
kbd
bul
ibo
ron
tel
aze
wln
scn
zea
fry
als
sgs
mar
dsb
nds
ksh
ksh
lrc
sqi
nld
snd
map-bms
stq
xho
pol
ind
ara
ita
msa
bre
gle
scn
glk
lin
nep
ceb
vie
lav
mwl
lrc
glv
swa
kaz
sqi
srp
mon
aze
slk
mhr
hat
bod
nrm
xmf
slk
zea
uig
bod
dty
pag
gag
kom
lmo
hun
frp
kom
srn
sna
orm
ava
xmf
tam
tcy
san
hif
mwl
nob
new
oci
uig
sna
pol
lit
ang
olo
tel
nno
tur
cbk
uig
cat
ina
cos
hif
nds
hsb
stq
eus
pam
hye
mal
swa
min
hsb
tha
hat
vie
deu
ces
cor
rup
ita
fra
ast
roh
scn
por
nrm
bre
ukr
be-tarask
hak
nds-nl
cor
arg
cor
lim
grn
min
bjn
bpy
fas
crh
pan
ext
lug
ina
cor
wln
mar
tet
ces
als
tet
slv
tcy
pnb
kat
mai
pol
dty
pap
fas
nso
asm
cos
mlt
hrv
ile
arg
pam
csb
div
pnb
tat
krc
koi
csb
ile
kat
fin
mlt
fur
bel
hak
csb
ile
cym
lin
mhr
tet
ltg
hbs
tat
ile
deu
orm
zea
hif
lug
lat
mwl
lez
krc
kom
sme
ron
rus
pap
lez
roa-tara
fra
isl
oci
fur
epo
amh
grn
kan
gle
lug
gle
lao
cat
ara
bre
egl
ukr
ast
war
vie
ukr
pfl
div
jav
ksh
srn
tgl
srd
srn
map-bms
lug
kan
pnb
lez
sco
hye
srp
nso
bjn
bxr
deu
krc
ksh
myv
pag
mwl
che
hrv
pag
mri
tam
mon
cat
olo
lez
ace
ell
csb
lav
eus
spa
eng
por
slk
oci
glg
nob
grn
myv
urd
snd
jav
isl
udm
cat
fra
sme
pan
bjn
pag
vol
glg
mlg
tha
bel
ceb
tha
fin
isl
kbd
swa
ast
lao
new
ksh
est
lug
bre
bjn
ibo
nap
nan
vie
new
dsb
ltg
srp
che
oci
bxr
dty
scn
nld
spa
pap
swa
asm
lez
xho
grn
roa-tara
pfl
grn
rue
map-bms
slv
oci
kan
vol
hye
mwl
stq
tat
rup
pnb
gag
egl
lmo
mwl
tha
pag
tur
map-bms
ile
pol
nrm
ind
jpn
que
mlg
nav
cbk
gag
oci
swe
als
csb
uig
ind
kin
ace
mwl
frp
hsb
nds
roh
dan
cat
ukr
ltg
vie
eng
bel
lez
gle
ceb
lit
bho
pag
mya
glk
mon
xho
ext
mai
por
wln
lez
pol
srd
grn
pam
oci
jpn
msa
pol
roa-tara
lad
kom
ava
ori
wln
dsb
nld
ita
oss
asm
dsb
che
sco
sqi
krc
egl
hbs
kat
guj
che
jav
que
oci
ang
pan
mhr
ava
oss
kor
new
mlt
tyv
sqi
glk
ell
kaz
ceb
bcl
scn
amh
pcd
lez
pap
khm
nld
tat
mdf
lat
swe
ang
tet
bjn
bjn
fao
tat
mar
glk
tel
khm
mal
wln
jbo
mwl
nno
map-bms
sme
sna
new
lav
pcd
nob
kan
fra
sgs
lit
aze
sin
lez
tcy
tel
guj
rup
slv
kom
pdc
hif
ibo
kbd
nan
mon
dty
nap
fur
mwl
que
ceb
lao
kin
srp
est
lao
ell
stq
srd
swa
bod
ara
khm
epo
koi
csb
koi
ckb
sgs
war
bel
pus
slv
nep
sme
rue
dty
glg
koi
kaz
dsb
ind
ron
dty
pap
koi
glg
deu
swe
hif
bcl
bar
hif
ang
swa
tat
mya
srp
hsb
ast
spa
nan
pag
rup
afr
ang
slv
amh
scn
ukr
mya
ile
che
lug
mlt
que
bxr
arg
ukr
srp
jav
bcl
sme
que
bul
lez
new
mar
nrm
mlg
tcy
mkd
bjn
nno
uig
crh
gla
bre
kor
ext
nep
xho
swe
que
vol
lad
roh
pag
kat
nso
sme
new
lez
vep
ina
cat
cym
csb
hrv
ckb
srp
lad
ceb
gle
tyv
mlg
pam
egl
hif
vol
lit
srn
che
krc
lat
mar
gag
pus
kom
nrm
rus
war
swe
uig
tcy
sgs
mhr
glg
mkd
bjn
hsb
war
tam
slk
pfl
orm
urd
mar
hrv
nno
ton
mhr
ell
mya
srp
ina
ukr
kor
myv
nds-nl
mkd
map-bms
srd
ina
fao
sin
bjn
deu
pag
sin
sgs
ina
mlg
wln
nno
ell
ile
fra
tur
yid
khm
crh
mwl
new
aze
div
swe
tat
rup
bxr
bxr
lao
cat
sco
tet
be-tarask
fra
hye
glk
lao
ltg
ltg
glv
bre
asm
ces
pap
sin
tha
pam
mon
hin
lez
lin
fin
ava
sna
fao
kat
ibo
tsn
vep
san
slk
mri
orm
nso
gag
mar
vol
vie
srp
yid
mya
hye
aym
mon
vep
sin
sme
mlg
mkd
glg
bho
egl
srd
ara
roh
lin
afr
new
mlt
tyv
nep
vls
roa-tara
udm
cym
sna
mdf
hif
hrv
pfl
uig
gla
nob
kaz
lrc
nob
glv
fas
mlt
swa
srp
sco
wln
bel
lit
cdo
por
sqi
mhr
slv
srp
tam
pap
tur
isl
mlt
amh
dan
nob
xmf
dan
stq
tyv
isl
pan
pol
min
hif
tsn
pdc
por
fur
pnb
csb
jbo
ast
lrc
nap
san
sna
nld
nso
hif
orm
xmf
nap
swe
guj
cos
sgs
jpn
lrc
est
sqi
hye
tha
cym
slv
pag
fur
mon
gle
lat
tet
bar
tur
mhr
ceb
cym
ava
nob
hsb
csb
nld
nds-nl
tha
msa
bxr
nso
war
oci
kan
mal
mkd
xho
vep
ibo
tgl
ast
mkd
aze
rue
tam
est
ace
bpy
nno
msa
war
dan
pam
pan
hak
ces
pol
kin
ron
kaz
ace
aym
gle
roa-tara
fas
ina
pap
pnb
roh
gla
khm
ckb
bjn
dan
ton
lit
nrm
ell
map-bms
sna
hak
lim
tsn
pcd
isl
hun
jpn
tsn
kor
mdf
lez
udm
pan
nld
jav
kaz
bar
jav
gla
tat
crh
rup
vls
xmf
fra
lug
myv
guj
pan
slv
grn
gla
ava
glv
tgl
glv
crh
crh
sgs
mlg
stq
udm
cos
krc
dan
bho
khm
cym
cor
hat
aze
myv
mal
sqi
cor
oss
nav
vep
mya
lug
epo
kin
srn
isl
udm
orm
udm
ukr
min
vie
mlg
ton
nds
hak
mhr
bod
ext
jpn
lat
kbd
pus
kor
hun
nrm
mya
eng
xho
mar
glg
hin
srp
roh
lit
roh
slk
krc
hat
ell
mkd
sin
stq
mon
mal
nso
bxr
kan
nds-nl
bul
grn
fur
lug
ang
myv
oci
stq
fur
pus
hye
ron
ron
cos
lat
pol
pnb
epo
nds
bho
be-tarask
pol
glk
mdf
pdc
snd
cdo
kbd
scn
hif
nds-nl
mal
isl
mri
sgs
csb
cat
vie
wln
ina
nds-nl
lad
bcl
pam
fra
uig
zea
div
hsb
che
aze
ckb
nds
fas
pol
tyv
kom
vls
cdo
lat
sqi
ibo
tat
lez
pnb
kat
scn
cos
fin
nan
kor
fas
lmo
fas
pap
sgs
asm
be-tarask
san
bxr
srd
mai
als
zea
roh
ind
lmo
dty
rup
kin
pam
srd
jbo
min
glv
lez
ton
pan
stq
bel
stq
mon
srn
nav
deu
hye
swa
xho
tha
bcl
rue
lin
afr
fur
sme
roa-tara
rue
xho
bar
rue
oci
gle
ace
fin
lav
ita
srn
mya
swe
eus
swe
arg
fry
vep
hbs
ast
srn
mon
sna
hin
ang
ces
afr
khm
kaz
sco
eus
vls
uig
ori
sco
yid
div
oci
ell
lmo
kat
gla
war
deu
roa-tara
kaz
jbo
sin
hye
bre
roa-tara
be-tarask
ina
hun
hsb
cdo
vls
fra
div
que
jbo
ckb
bjn
cdo
glk
kaz
khm
mlt
yid
fry
cat
hun
mwl
pag
srp
bod
map-bms
est
wln
hak
koi
kor
hun
che
div
mal
hin
bpy
glk
fra
fra
ast
mlg
aym
por
sna
map-bms
bul
pfl
nan
mdf
ckb
mar
gla
isl
nrm
yid
ori
ceb
hin
uig
jbo
ces
spa
rue
pol
rue
lug
bre
pdc
epo
kan
roh
che
glg
ori
vls
epo
lug
rus
krc
als
myv
ind
mlt
nob
pag
orm
slv
kom
sin
map-bms
pap
lav
vep
lad
gle
dty
fra
sco
pdc
ton
jav
rue
mdf
asm
tcy
kin
mar
snd
bel
sme
que
ile
tam
ori
csb
jbo
deu
srp
roa-tara
koi
hun
hbs
kan
guj
be-tarask
sgs
pus
ind
bul
guj
ile
mlt
mon
hif
fao
hrv
slk
dsb
pdc
tgl
nld
swa
udm
hsb
crh
vls
ile
sme
ita
wln
ell
nds-nl
rue
ang
sna
srd
xho
glv
hak
ita
vol
nld
kbd
ara
pan
gle
swa
deu
bod
sco
div
mar
amh
por
ara
myv
min
slv
mya
bar
aze
bel
hun
bxr
lug
hin
ang
swa
myv
kaz
cat
lez
kan
pap
egl
xho
guj
koi
nso
mai
aze
dan
san
pfl
ina
be-tarask
udm
mwl
cym
ang
min
nso
msa
bod
lin
kaz
pam
bpy
rus
tur
krc
kin
kaz
que
rus
afr
ava
glg
dty
ina
gle
zea
egl
tur
nan
lmo
ibo
gag
roa-tara
sme
glk
nds
msa
srn
glg
pap
ukr
oci
krc
koi
ita
mwl
por
lrc
csb
tel
be-tarask
bel
spa
mai
asm
sco
kor
mal
mhr
olo
snd
lit
ind
nap
lit
ita
orm
rup
myv
urd
tgl
oci
ori
hrv
cos
fry
ukr
swe
tyv
tur
gle
lao
bxr
ind
rup
mya
aym
csb
epo
kat
pam
cdo
hun
ron
pol
hrv
dsb
srn
ibo
mkd
bcl
san
koi
fas
min
bxr
kaz
fra
kbd
jbo
hrv
grn
hun
ltg
bcl
por
gag
swe
hin
mdf
que
roh
hat
nso
cdo
nan
war
ang
mya
nso
mlg
deu
lad
ukr
oci
ori
new
hak
tam
fry
uig
deu
rue
srd
stq
tur
bpy
nld
bpy
war
glv
bjn
pcd
vls
hye
ces
hye
bpy
pdc
que
kat
pcd
nds
ell
lug
vie
hsb
tyv
ltg
new
oci
ibo
mya
tur
nan
eng
ceb
por
kor
mar
mar
yid
tgl
dsb
tur
fur
hun
mya
cdo
cor
hif
che
srp
cym
olo
pus
ces
mlt
ile
nrm
kan
cat
glk
pcd
bre
srd
div
asm
egl
fin
slv
be-tarask
vls
glk
war
vie
fra
bcl
mya
nrm
mal
nan
xho
fry
nap
koi
pam
cdo
sgs
glk
mwl
mwl
pag
snd
jav
swe
hsb
pcd
koi
guj
vls
bel
xho
kaz
cdo
bjn
hrv
hsb
bod
bre
roh
hif
fra
swe
tgl
tyv
krc
als
swe
gag
ext
pnb
pag
srn
rup
ara
isl
kor
kor
khm
bcl
mri
mal
snd
hye
hsb
oss
pnb
tur
pus
ext
slv
lao
mri
bxr
hye
sme
ces
jbo
srn
hin
por
nrm
epo
stq
swe
ind
srd
krc
mri
sme
san
ori
epo
srp
xho
lat
sin
bar
new
kor
che
pcd
fra
hbs
mya
hrv
jpn
asm
hak
kin
hbs
pcd
dan
ksh
ace
tur
hrv
be-tarask
krc
pdc
nso
tel
urd
jav
ceb
cor
tgl
por
snd
nav
bul
mai
myv
ell
pol
oci
nav
pan
tcy
jav
ind
tcy
guj
tur
nds
mkd
ton
mlg
tgl
eng
khm
kom
vie
scn
tsn
mya
nan
tgl
map-bms
pan
fas
gla
mya
hsb
nan
pcd
ava
bul
grn
lao
ava
est
pan
est
asm
vie
csb
san
new
war
nob
mkd
bho
fas
aym
koi
amh
isl
min
ton
khm
swa
tat
nep
arg
oci
lrc
tel
div
afr
glg
fry
mdf
roh
nno
cat
pcd
ina
ava
snd
lez
che
nds-nl
bcl
egl
vep
urd
fry
vep
xmf
pol
lim
pdc
mar
orm
war
ckb
ltg
rup
tur
crh
jav
ell
kom
bho
mon
ron
rup
ext
ang
ori
lav
ceb
div
aze
vol
scn
rup
nob
pfl
mal
ext
nep
lav
afr
be-tarask
tsn
arg
div
lad
srd
uig
bho
uig
jpn
srp
ceb
bel
sgs
lmo
ace
ace
nno
olo
afr
tha
mri
cdo
ukr
lmo
deu
que
hif
uig
nld
vep
new
hun
glg
aym
hin
asm
tgl
frp
bcl
glg
arg
pol
oss
est
jav
als
be-tarask
ukr
ext
cdo
hif
nld
bod
mai
mai
nso
rus
ell
tha
mar
ksh
lin
fra
glg
srd
afr
slv
udm
epo
bre
bho
tet
sco
snd
hye
uig
new
mwl
ita
krc
tgl
map-bms
eus
nso
kaz
srp
als
xho
orm
isl
nep
cos
kaz
zea
san
myv
roa-tara
pdc
crh
nan
lim
eus
hun
bul
oss
tyv
tat
crh
cdo
epo
lrc
kaz
lad
sme
spa
kat
cbk
hun
pap
swa
arg
wln
ile
zea
yid
est
xho
urd
pnb
ind
swe
jbo
kor
ibo
jpn
ceb
mri
lez
pdc
hat
nrm
sme
ibo
nso
rup
nep
jav
nap
eng
srn
por
nds
hin
slk
rue
ara
bxr
csb
nob
nds-nl
lad
vls
bul
por
bjn
kan
orm
vol
mlt
xmf
be-tarask
glv
isl
tha
kor
kor
mon
orm
isl
pap
kor
lav
egl
nld
srp
tyv
hif
cat
epo
lrc
ava
sme
cos
mhr
que
ext
deu
lrc
bho
nrm
ukr
vol
xmf
que
sin
lin
pfl
lin
snd
mal
pdc
kbd
kom
che
war
swa
oss
urd
tgl
wln
egl
tet
egl
asm
zea
egl
lez
que
cos
tyv
ext
nno
kin
deu
nav
ceb
pdc
tam
pag
snd
oss
scn
xmf
bel
san
tcy
lin
be-tarask
frp
vep
be-tarask
hif
hbs
new
glg
slk
dty
pol
mon
urd
vep
bel
ckb
por
tgl
koi
glg
sin
fin
hun
ara
mkd
cbk
pfl
lez
mai
dsb
fao
pam
fin
pnb
slv
myv
sco
bul
udm
dan
csb
nld
crh
xho
guj
gle
est
pan
ell
lat
bre
myv
csb
sco
min
ita
war
cat
scn
tyv
ukr
lad
sin
snd
gla
crh
new
mai
lit
roh
afr
snd
mai
pam
ext
pol
ibo
nep
frp
crh
mlt
nap
map-bms
lug
ces
srn
udm
koi
war
hif
nep
srn
als
afr
mhr
tat
cdo
kor
che
kan
csb
srd
khm
jav
rup
pus
ara
tet
uig
eus
pcd
srn
tam
ltg
bpy
nap
nrm
vol
asm
yid
egl
gla
hun
orm
pap
stq
bpy
als
ltg
ang
fao
jav
new
uig
tgl
hin
nav
war
cat
nso
sqi
dan
ind
sco
jpn
nld
hak
lin
roa-tara
mkd
por
ltg
sme
bre
hun
egl
mwl
arg
lat
lmo
olo
nav
cbk
lez
kin
grn
vep
pam
bre
ell
pus
nob
isl
min
snd
yid
fry
kor
sna
srd
cat
lin
asm
frp
por
spa
swe
lao
lug
kat
fry
pnb
min
lrc
bre
rue
que
new
ibo
pam
oss
aze
swa
ita
dty
hak
lrc
scn
epo
be-tarask
ava
ceb
ang
war
swe
slv
mri
sme
cor
aze
oci
grn
nan
map-bms
nep
koi
slv
stq
yid
khm
hak
lim
hif
hrv
sin
sin
tet
kbd
glg
mdf
srp
tel
uig
cbk
mhr
lao
mai
tam
msa
lao
rus
bre
ceb
zea
pol
glg
amh
mar
lin
lao
csb
aze
ile
bpy
lmo
kbd
vep
div
ext
bjn
gla
epo
frp
pus
rus
pfl
cbk
swe
nob
lit
mon
tsn
tha
ibo
egl
be-tarask
lit
urd
asm
bod
ext
div
spa
glk
che
epo
vep
kbd
mwl
tcy
zea
ace
kin
srd
fra
nan
eus
frp
fao
pus
mwl
san
roa-tara
hun
xho
kom
pus
ang
mar
bel
jpn
ara
gla
sna
udm
ind
yid
hat
kat
sco
fry
glg
eng
udm
eng
ina
olo
roa-tara
zea
amh
xmf
ina
vol
dsb
cos
cym
snd
jbo
kor
hak
hrv
tet
amh
min
ibo
scn
be-tarask
min
fry
tha
ita
lez
msa
koi
fas
grn
eng
egl
vep
pag
wln
lug
hrv
pol
nan
wln
pcd
nno
pap
hye
vol
nob
urd
krc
urd
udm
orm
ast
kor
jav
eng
cat
gla
sco
krc
guj
bxr
vie
be-tarask
map-bms
nep
ind
vol
bho
ina
tcy
tha
ukr
hun
swa
hif
war
bre
kbd
lao
bho
nds
dan
cat
lmo
khm
ukr
kin
pag
arg
pam
sgs
dsb
bar
pap
roh
pnb
pag
afr
pus
hif
bel
hye
glk
tel
guj
swe
pap
lez
mdf
kom
pdc
fas
swe
mya
tur
ell
be-tarask
roa-tara
bpy
ind
egl
swa
ina
sme
cor
mya
cos
dsb
ang
kor
ast
fry
snd
bod
bul
asm
xho
ori
cbk
cbk
rup
sco
lav
ltg
aze
rus
olo
glv
cos
lin
lav
ksh
bul
bpy
cos
tgl
vls
nds
zea
gle
nan
tha
glk
be-tarask
est
srp
sqi
amh
mri
oci
glv
fur
nap
lim
fur
nld
ron
nep
lat
khm
san
lat
dty
bho
nso
ace
epo
cym
bul
khm
be-tarask
oss
bjn
lug
scn
vie
frp
sqi
sco
uig
pnb
mai
nso
tur
lmo
kat
hin
zea
pnb
hun
jav
lim
hin
pam
ceb
lao
tyv
roh
mlg
nno
jbo
ron
kbd
eus
lat
bcl
lao
stq
dty
swe
mya
lit
xho
slk
hif
myv
mlg
cos
krc
lat
nds
grn
nds
pap
pan
oss
isl
stq
amh
nld
nld
bar
srd
ace
pcd
lez
isl
udm
fry
pol
san
sqi
ell
che
kat
tsn
mon
fry
tat
spa
war
mya
hye
mai
nep
cos
cbk
lat
lit
nav
sqi
sco
pag
nap
nds
csb
tha
bel
map-bms
cdo
cos
srd
ibo
jbo
lit
tur
koi
lmo
jav
vls
vie
bpy
ori
mar
grn
kat
mon
ltg
fry
fra
roh
hrv
tyv
pcd
hun
sin
srp
slk
sna
slv
est
nob
glk
fin
udm
lmo
hat
ckb
pag
aym
slv
rus
mai
dsb
tat
nap
ron
aze
cos
pdc
zea
hat
ltg
cor
hin
mai
rus
nap
khm
cos
uig
eng
pnb
ind
ava
bxr
lim
mai
glk
scn
hun
ara
udm
deu
pcd
isl
mwl
ckb
hrv
vls
bul
ksh
scn
gle
wln
swa
fao
ang
hak
mon
gla
lrc
kat
afr
hye
bcl
sco
jav
nds
lad
ara
fao
tel
hbs
dsb
ile
hif
stq
olo
srp
roa-tara
srn
srp
crh
cor
pfl
gle
hin
pnb
mlt
srn
egl
afr
mlg
ceb
mar
fra
swe
bxr
vep
srp
grn
ceb
swa
lrc
yid
war
jbo
rue
ind
fas
asm
bho
tam
gla
sme
fas
lav
aze
mya
roh
deu
nap
bcl
ori
isl
myv
bod
lmo
pag
tyv
nap
ces
hif
bpy
lin
pdc
tat
deu
ron
myv
frp
lit
pnb
ron
pag
kom
san
srn
vol
nrm
scn
che
ind
hak
tat
ukr
lav
aze
tam
fur
ibo
nav
ori
hif
ind
hye
swa
nds
rus
egl
pam
dsb
amh
hat
cym
deu
lao
nds
mlt
mlg
ksh
est
hin
che
msa
urd
csb
mai
als
pol
pnb
pnb
bul
ava
tyv
bar
csb
tyv
vol
mal
nav
srp
che
myv
ksh
hin
ile
kbd
kan
hun
ita
hsb
ibo
san
cor
stq
map-bms
bod
pam
lit
roa-tara
olo
war
udm
fra
lim
frp
aze
new
sin
tet
koi
ceb
hak
hsb
nav
ext
nob
ind
ori
lin
pag
lmo
mhr
fur
tel
mar
hbs
est
mkd
isl
pcd
myv
mal
aze
cat
myv
eus
nav
roa-tara
pan
cym
sin
cos
egl
gag
nso
rup
stq
lrc
cos
ltg
frp
glg
swe
hun
fur
mkd
epo
ava
krc
est
hat
bxr
fra
tyv
msa
pam
tsn
mai
sna
nap
cbk
nds-nl
gle
nrm
lmo
kat
mlt
ces
nld
mlt
olo
kan
mai
tgl
crh
hun
hat
scn
ltg
jav
koi
lit
tam
san
vep
fas
hbs
guj
udm
mya
rup
tgl
frp
aze
lat
jav
fas
lat
xmf
tel
afr
tam
cor
fin
bul
crh
ile
bre
pag
mar
fra
spa
egl
hsb
vep
gla
est
por
ara
srn
gle
ang
lin
bjn
lrc
lit
mri
bho
bod
roh
msa
bcl
ara
lav
mwl
tgl
als
jpn
srp
cor
hye
ast
scn
msa
ksh
pcd
lao
ind
scn
min
frp
glv
sme
tsn
bar
mkd
ron
slk
mya
ind
ast
mar
isl
deu
tet
pnb
swe
sna
rue
glv
ext
ori
amh
orm
crh
msa
srd
grn
cor
stq
ltg
cdo
aze
kor
lat
deu
vep
jbo
pag
srp
udm
map-bms
pam
stq
slv
ton
ltg
eus
fry
bpy
ina
lmo
scn
que
pnb
lat
lug
srd
div
ext
rue
ibo
hat
tsn
egl
bcl
kor
bar
ina
swe
ile
tur
nan
mya
ksh
que
hif
cym
hbs
bre
gla
csb
kor
div
mdf
amh
hak
dty
ile
rus
cor
sin
orm
orm
khm
nrm
min
nan
guj
cbk
kaz
hat
ceb
kat
xmf
gag
lit
mlt
bjn
ext
fao
tel
dsb
gla
cym
asm
stq
sgs
hye
ibo
xho
amh
cym
eng
glg
que
pan
ina
als
san
pap
che
lrc
koi
bre
gle
mal
tsn
ori
map-bms
kor
hsb
glg
yid
bjn
tyv
oss
nob
kor
lit
mhr
urd
scn
jav
swa
epo
cbk
cym
snd
grn
ceb
lat
hun
gag
koi
glk
swa
nap
tyv
tet
nds
aze
msa
div
rus
min
que
eus
fao
ces
bjn
hbs
pol
nan
ita
vie
ang
tha
min
ind
nds
bel
bul
mwl
kin
cym
lug
bpy
mlg
lao
udm
urd
mal
eng
tsn
arg
sco
hat
zea
nep
olo
cym
khm
mlg
hun
ita
sin
myv
lug
que
nan
rup
xmf
frp
bpy
scn
nno
isl
dsb
dan
map-bms
mdf
gle
nld
mar
glk
glg
est
krc
ces
hye
bho
slk
bcl
sgs
swa
pam
nso
hsb
ind
ita
mlg
che
mlg
bul
bxr
vol
gag
isl
lit
fry
koi
por
war
srp
msa
sme
nob
aze
tcy
dsb
pan
fur
tsn
zea
san
bjn
srn
oci
ukr
cym
ina
lao
kat
ile
cos
aym
aze
new
sgs
wln
bjn
ava
hin
bpy
srp
mkd
ext
mri
bxr
mlg
jpn
sme
xho
lav
xho
xho
lad
dty
dsb
egl
fas
hbs
sna
bho
xho
lug
jpn
orm
crh
uig
swe
wln
roh
aym
pfl
bjn
mal
gla
lit
hin
mya
fao
ava
nrm
mai
myv
bar
pnb
bre
vol
ori
glk
lim
mkd
hbs
ukr
lmo
pnb
guj
roh
che
lez
bpy
bcl
fao
vie
kom
que
lin
mlg
sin
pfl
ksh
kbd
ltg
orm
pap
bcl
sme
gla
lat
hrv
spa
xho
gag
ton
swe
lez
pan
lmo
grn
orm
bre
spa
lrc
pol
gag
ceb
lav
fin
fur
ltg
ukr
frp
koi
bho
koi
bre
oci
cos
nrm
bul
isl
tsn
als
slv
tel
lin
dsb
orm
hif
div
msa
isl
ceb
sna
swa
yid
zea
nds-nl
spa
nso
ton
ori
sin
ind
gag
pam
map-bms
fas
xmf
ron
cat
lug
mkd
ltg
mlt
lug
bho
que
mlg
bar
vol
pdc
jpn
arg
ace
mar
cdo
guj
por
scn
gag
por
nan
bel
ace
gle
sqi
ceb
vie
sna
jbo
kbd
crh
nob
sco
yid
lin
pam
xmf
san
ukr
als
kin
dsb
aze
tsn
nav
ltg
yid
nep
koi
lmo
fas
san
lat
hif
gle
sco
kin
khm
oci
sgs
slk
hbs
ast
lat
guj
ina
myv
orm
lav
san
mhr
pcd
fra
ukr
gle
srn
nav
nld
swe
orm
amh
ibo
hif
pus
swe
lat
ita
hrv
nno
pam
cdo
ceb
mdf
bel
arg
por
lit
udm
uig
xho
fao
asm
kaz
orm
por
tel
xho
bul
hak
ast
mhr
sqi
ile
crh
wln
myv
che
srp
mya
afr
dan
war
bxr
ast
orm
ile
nan
ell
deu
aze
mdf
hin
ina
pfl
mlt
ind
bar
pag
hsb
slv
cym
ast
nan
zea
ces
srd
nds-nl
arg
srn
ron
lav
nno
ina
frp
hbs
ces
hye
glk
ton
fao
bpy
tyv
krc
ext
eng
mlt
be-tarask
lez
ext
amh
csb
bre
epo
dan
wln
be-tarask
srn
scn
khm
slk
swa
mlg
sna
nrm
be-tarask
arg
lao
nds-nl
hat
sin
cat
vie
ibo
cdo
pam
fas
als
lav
oss
dty
kor
spa
orm
bjn
lug
lit
hbs
sin
nld
nep
mon
cym
ton
bar
ina
que
mon
dty
fra
hin
lin
sgs
mal
bel
hin
tur
ace
koi
mhr
roh
glv
kom
war
que
bel
vls
lao
olo
dsb
nno
yid
arg
frp
ara
wln
xho
hin
ast
krc
srd
dsb
guj
tcy
pol
cdo
lez
pag
nap
bcl
fra
vol
que
kaz
lit
pol
bul
deu
spa
mai
cbk
bod
srn
ron
ara
nap
lmo
spa
war
tet
est
nap
pcd
sco
jbo
afr
rup
tsn
khm
mal
hye
xho
mai
als
hun
hat
ori
vls
csb
new
als
koi
fas
div
glk
pan
grn
xho
ces
mdf
deu
mhr
mlg
rup
fra
mar
bjn
fao
lit
dsb
pfl
ara
glk
mal
kor
bho
ava
stq
ang
mai
vls
fao
roh
fao
dty
roa-tara
ast
hif
que
roa-tara
dsb
div
tha
zea
bel
tha
nrm
srd
scn
egl
ckb
scn
bod
est
grn
hat
nso
fao
crh
srd
tcy
fao
jav
swa
tcy
sna
xmf
ile
min
lit
lrc
csb
lav
egl
oci
jav
pam
egl
slk
est
cat
nld
jpn
lao
lug
tel
ext
xho
ina
dsb
vie
pap
scn
kor
dty
sme
pol
ile
nan
lrc
ron
ron
mon
lat
sgs
asm
gla
nob
ori
stq
bul
msa
deu
ara
urd
hrv
mkd
kom
lim
fao
fur
hun
khm
ltg
guj
vep
orm
ckb
bho
tcy
hye
fra
cos
bcl
oci
mal
lez
roh
mai
crh
sco
mdf
nav
san
bar
ori
san
arg
bpy
bel
fas
cor
mal
dsb
asm
est
kbd
fur
nds-nl
cos
ckb
eng
lin
mal
rus
mkd
aze
pap
slv
jpn
fas
srp
eng
tur
sqi
nan
glk
deu
pam
tgl
hif
slk
srd
cor
nld
cor
kbd
tcy
por
isl
ara
tam
hbs
pam
be-tarask
kan
mar
hat
ace
swe
udm
ltg
kat
srp
vie
koi
mri
pus
fas
fin
hak
bel
pam
xmf
que
msa
fur
koi
gag
lad
eng
fra
srd
nld
mri
lad
bcl
vep
mdf
nrm
rue
new
pcd
mhr
guj
bel
tgl
scn
csb
spa
gle
pnb
gag
krc
urd
mlg
nds
nld
che
ace
kat
san
ast
war
crh
pfl
bjn
pan
srn
xho
hsb
slv
tha
sin
ina
bho
ron
cos
bel
srp
hat
mkd
hak
als
cym
cdo
bar
urd
nso
eus
mal
ava
bre
vol
xho
pam
hun
kom
tgl
grn
oss
aym
lav
pan
hat
oci
fry
hif
snd
ibo
bul
nob
snd
nob
ell
tet
ron
fry
glk
mri
tcy
fra
sin
nap
orm
lit
bho
hin
tha
tgl
nob
ace
kom
grn
hat
xho
ast
tam
pag
mlg
ita
ita
jpn
sgs
san
pan
tyv
guj
dsb
deu
xho
spa
ast
lug
nrm
tyv
krc
kat
mai
nrm
tcy
mri
dsb
hin
sgs
pfl
msa
swe
lat
lav
srn
rue
mkd
lmo
mlg
lit
lit
gag
guj
rus
mri
vie
hif
fur
koi
eng
bjn
san
fao
tat
swa
msa
tgl
que
pag
pol
lit
stq
zea
fur
ile
nan
glk
bcl
glg
fry
ile
amh
nav
amh
div
amh
ton
lrc
mai
urd
map-bms
nav
jav
bel
map-bms
map-bms
ile
mon
ltg
nob
rup
bar
epo
cos
mar
cor
kor
fao
bjn
rue
mlg
csb
sme
nav
cos
msa
pnb
kat
tcy
lav
pcd
stq
nld
gag
fry
tel
que
ckb
gla
pap
oci
ton
bcl
ces
aze
ara
als
pnb
hun
mhr
mhr
krc
hin
ckb
krc
roh
bho
nso
asm
vls
gle
est
mlt
ckb
mlg
nrm
nds-nl
nan
gla
oci
mri
nso
kor
ava
que
crh
scn
war
scn
cos
tha
nob
nap
uig
sqi
aze
lav
nap
tgl
bcl
vie
swa
wln
jbo
lad
pus
ina
sqi
kin
sna
mai
kbd
sqi
nds-nl
uig
tet
lat
scn
mkd
fur
xho
mhr
ara
mdf
sin
hun
bre
pus
arg
crh
nep
myv
fra
nno
mlg
ara
oss
lrc
sqi
mal
csb
xho
guj
nld
bar
gla
hif
asm
bcl
afr
que
ast
ava
war
sgs
hat
glg
ukr
srd
lez
pol
gag
oss
hif
fin
roh
epo
nds-nl
krc
fin
pam
glk
map-bms
que
kbd
nav
ell
oss
nds-nl
srp
bre
swe
mya
cos
vol
hak
pfl
aze
roa-tara
xho
csb
ton
bre
uig
aym
tsn
tsn
ksh
bcl
snd
nan
por
tsn
myv
ava
hak
hsb
vie
mwl
glv
ast
pam
sgs
ron
san
kaz
swe
lad
dsb
fra
sco
urd
pus
ace
wln
ast
cos
bho
aze
hbs
que
olo
epo
tat
sna
hye
ile
nds-nl
pcd
ksh
nds-nl
ell
ibo
nds-nl
cbk
kin
kan
crh
yid
vls
mai
cym
cor
yid
mal
pnb
ang
pam
lao
ara
hrv
lmo
krc
lmo
lim
map-bms
nrm
ltg
srp
lim
fao
hif
aym
nno
ina
hif
hun
deu
tur
tha
ukr
hif
bho
xmf
fao
nob
glv
mon
urd
fry
lmo
sgs
gle
mlg
sin
stq
nrm
por
hak
bxr
gle
ava
tet
por
dsb
kat
roa-tara
lao
khm
min
nrm
ind
bod
tam
lug
wln
pdc
san
bod
ksh
mai
pam
glv
pfl
nap
glk
swa
mhr
pam
fra
kat
kaz
bel
lim
arg
tyv
slk
min
srn
nno
new
arg
hrv
pus
mai
afr
jpn
xho
div
xho
glg
lat
ceb
slk
orm
nso
scn
tyv
snd
udm
isl
glg
sqi
guj
khm
hun
kat
lug
sme
tam
lao
guj
ton
xho
hat
pap
slv
jbo
tur
mon
slk
est
isl
msa
ceb
roa-tara
war
udm
als
hak
mwl
myv
spa
khm
lug
ace
sqi
mlg
tha
ukr
hat
oci
nso
bul
eng
ang
min
amh
roh
uig
kor
bxr
nds
gla
fas
war
guj
nds-nl
lit
nan
tam
guj
ton
aym
roa-tara
nso
nav
egl
bod
myv
san
slk
pam
sco
sin
mai
tet
lmo
mhr
roa-tara
srd
hif
frp
gle
cdo
war
hun
ina
kaz
cor
div
cos
lim
sco
oci
nap
sna
fra
tcy
cdo
ind
ita
hrv
sgs
ces
khm
fur
bcl
hrv
lug
mlg
eus
pam
deu
mon
nld
pnb
jav
mhr
deu
wln
kbd
swa
ast
amh
dsb
lit
pol
glk
crh
tam
nob
sme
afr
lim
scn
mlg
fin
uig
mal
ori
lug
lmo
cym
jpn
lad
deu
kan
lrc
nap
ext
guj
ast
nan
cos
nrm
fao
crh
nrm
be-tarask
xmf
lmo
dsb
be-tarask
tha
kor
ces
nno
swe
oci
uig
msa
pol
swe
fao
fur
afr
pan
hye
vep
gla
hrv
vie
pag
kbd
srp
oci
uig
sna
als
lit
bul
bul
new
ces
udm
kan
mon
sna
wln
guj
amh
pus
gla
mdf
san
hak
stq
pam
spa
oci
lug
ava
pdc
fry
por
pcd
isl
ton
udm
jpn
csb
ita
oss
spa
aym
pcd
srp
xho
olo
ton
cat
lug
mdf
tcy
amh
grn
vol
aze
olo
srd
ara
gle
guj
srp
lim
mon
cat
lat
nav
dty
cdo
ita
eng
nrm
ang
udm
tyv
new
ibo
fra
nrm
spa
nob
nds
srp
gle
als
ace
pfl
myv
myv
mlg
min
pus
kom
pdc
kin
xho
slv
udm
pan
slv
hun
khm
udm
ina
crh
rup
hin
gla
kor
kin
hbs
tsn
cos
mal
pcd
ltg
tgl
srd
lrc
bod
kat
sgs
nds
dsb
pdc
nap
jbo
slv
kaz
sqi
orm
epo
kbd
ext
bcl
yid
min
ast
tcy
bel
isl
kom
glk
oss
ara
mal
aze
bod
lez
pag
san
vie
glk
srd
cor
ori
vls
ell
eng
arg
cym
nav
roh
srn
lrc
ara
sgs
glv
dsb
lav
sna
pap
sgs
stq
xho
ces
ina
mdf
dsb
bho
roh
aym
ind
srp
div
kbd
glk
grn
hye
sme
nap
sco
snd
tet
tel
khm
tha
srp
nep
sqi
slv
egl
oss
dan
fur
che
msa
tha
cbk
sgs
lao
que
be-tarask
ukr
zea
rup
sgs
ukr
ext
tcy
glk
vls
ava
deu
tur
ksh
cdo
fin
lin
sme
che
nso
eus
als
guj
swe
pnb
cat
ina
tyv
dsb
ace
rue
als
vol
pnb
ang
san
oss
tyv
snd
ibo
ina
mwl
grn
glv
nld
nno
kin
ava
sme
krc
rus
urd
mal
bxr
pdc
sin
ukr
ile
bod
fao
est
myv
bpy
jbo
tel
tha
ton
ext
udm
lad
kaz
gle
por
myv
nap
lmo
lez
uig
kan
aze
tcy
aym
frp
hbs
ita
afr
guj
aym
glk
vie
lat
kor
hat
mon
lin
nds
cor
yid
scn
gag
sgs
pag
kin
slk
mkd
arg
tam
frp
sqi
glv
ara
pnb
isl
hye
ext
urd
oci
che
ibo
por
gla
stq
hye
hin
glg
gag
kan
map-bms
sco
pan
tsn
fao
urd
isl
olo
dsb
ckb
ast
koi
srn
krc
lav
vol
crh
be-tarask
hin
tsn
war
sna
glk
glk
sco
stq
lin
lim
roa-tara
xho
ces
csb
glv
glk
sqi
eus
gle
be-tarask
che
nav
mkd
bxr
nso
nds
nob
slk
lao
arg
arg
mri
est
nob
tel
eus
hak
srd
bcl
vie
pcd
oci
glv
swe
scn
lim
ell
ckb
lez
grn
cor
ell
tyv
ckb
arg
bcl
afr
sco
mya
fas
tsn
fry
fur
pam
lav
war
lav
kan
nds-nl
zea
mdf
zea
nso
tat
bxr
mri
nap
new
mal
bcl
mri
map-bms
eus
glv
bod
rup
nld
gle
jav
wln
fry
sme
tat
bcl
nds
glk
orm
bul
ibo
est
lmo
bar
mlg
glk
urd
min
koi
sco
cdo
mri
sme
hsb
nrm
nep
new
be-tarask
urd
min
fin
kom
csb
roh
nrm
ara
ksh
ibo
koi
hif
mon
msa
amh
yid
bul
pap
ace
cdo
new
ast
cym
ksh
che
vol
kor
lav
nep
fur
lug
kan
kom
krc
sme
mon
myv
ace
dsb
ext
ori
mal
stq
wln
bel
pag
gag
tsn
mya
glk
ang
als
ina
dan
epo
sco
lav
hye
nso
ext
gag
pnb
lav
pcd
ltg
jav
guj
lug
hrv
kor
jbo
gle
lin
hbs
rup
lrc
hbs
cor
kbd
cor
war
lao
amh
deu
yid
bul
kbd
ron
hif
bjn
bul
aym
amh
ara
ina
glk
zea
bar
slk
lit
mkd
koi
lug
ori
cat
bjn
che
dsb
snd
nds-nl
dty
kaz
swa
spa
tat
scn
udm
ibo
srp
kat
be-tarask
ina
lao
nob
stq
slv
bpy
pnb
glg
pan
lez
lit
bho
fur
tsn
tur
nld
kor
mai
spa
als
oss
srp
fao
ace
bre
als
guj
nav
est
grn
egl
nav
por
grn
fry
nrm
ile
ltg
kbd
ces
lad
ltg
be-tarask
myv
pfl
bel
mai
ron
nav
fas
gag
bar
ukr
fra
ina
ukr
cbk
scn
lad
ron
mai
myv
hye
div
min
pap
fry
grn
pcd
che
grn
rup
est
tel
roh
bho
fas
pol
hat
fur
aze
ksh
pcd
ukr
koi
tur
jpn
ina
hun
vls
nav
dsb
ext
vol
lit
xho
oci
scn
che
aym
pol
mlg
ces
nds
tat
ckb
lav
nep
kat
bjn
hye
mya
pus
pdc
koi
che
bho
ell
glg
ina
mdf
slk
nno
glv
ina
fra
gla
bpy
ara
guj
hat
lad
egl
cos
kom
srn
khm
deu
eus
tyv
msa
pol
che
cdo
vol
que
vie
sme
srn
dan
sgs
kaz
grn
kan
gle
kor
bar
lug
lao
bel
ava
csb
map-bms
ita
sin
mar
pcd
khm
gle
bcl
arg
sco
hif
crh
ile
myv
rus
bre
cat
spa
egl
glg
ext
csb
wln
koi
mlg
jpn
egl
tet
eus
glk
ltg
dty
tgl
swe
ibo
fao
jbo
pdc
ell
be-tarask
ace
hat
kbd
new
vep
dan
tat
arg
pan
nds
kbd
udm
fin
myv
bpy
jbo
koi
bjn
pnb
jbo
srp
mdf
srn
che
bho
xho
pan
kaz
nav
por
guj
kin
afr
scn
epo
mwl
zea
bho
egl
rue
guj
ind
guj
mya
aze
mri
hye
khm
rus
kor
ibo
bod
ceb
eus
ltg
pcd
hat
spa
jbo
sme
ibo
roh
uig
ang
sme
mdf
tet
pam
war
cdo
jav
nds
olo
koi
min
swa
vls
kor
ast
lez
tyv
pag
krc
frp
ltg
be-tarask
be-tarask
slv
hye
nso
kat
nap
pnb
ron
tam
kat
ukr
urd
nno
que
srp
pus
ava
ang
glg
bpy
stq
jpn
bod
mya
ton
pap
grn
xmf
est
mkd
rup
srd
hif
glv
tet
swa
lrc
krc
lez
hak
bod
gla
bcl
jbo
glg
roa-tara
mhr
mri
srn
que
afr
nld
koi
tsn
fra
cos
swa
mlt
kan
pnb
pfl
sgs
fas
egl
bar
khm
ceb
fao
nld
hrv
asm
mya
bcl
lin
rue
nrm
orm
hak
olo
epo
wln
kbd
tyv
ita
che
rus
lin
mlt
bxr
cor
glg
bar
bjn
vep
wln
nep
ceb
nav
min
kan
bod
csb
roh
hif
est
yid
hun
gle
uig
afr
tam
arg
oss
pcd
bar
cos
gle
afr
nan
kor
lat
tat
bel
mri
rue
hye
tur
aze
ces
spa
cos
kor
bjn
dsb
kat
isl
bho
isl
urd
nno
nno
tel
oci
cbk
urd
dty
hat
hye
bcl
hun
sqi
ksh
deu
afr
asm
ara
pol
scn
crh
hun
bjn
urd
ell
glg
spa
srd
est
cdo
glk
yid
tel
mwl
mya
csb
pam
jbo
mar
tha
mlt
pag
udm
nap
mlt
afr
oci
cdo
rus
pnb
pus
pol
pus
fao
ace
tgl
tel
asm
nds-nl
ceb
nrm
fao
spa
tet
crh
snd
udm
bul
ast
tat
sme
yid
sgs
tam
sco
ltg
ile
mwl
fra
bpy
pam
xmf
kom
nds
tyv
sco
pfl
cos
hrv
nno
tel
ukr
hak
ton
fry
lin
cym
new
nno
pam
ceb
vep
csb
fao
zea
new
ina
lat
frp
kat
ltg
ast
olo
als
div
eus
hrv
deu
xmf
cdo
ara
tat
ara
crh
bjn
bul
bre
est
mlt
spa
kaz
cos
cbk
hbs
lez
hif
hin
koi
sgs
urd
pcd
ckb
ori
jpn
tsn
lrc
fin
yid
bpy
hrv
hak
spa
ckb
gla
lin
hun
tet
cbk
ckb
sin
scn
new
cor
ina
cat
ava
kaz
cat
ina
nap
ita
srp
sgs
tcy
epo
hak
rus
lim
bpy
kan
egl
lez
ext
ava
ron
kat
ltg
pnb
eus
zea
kor
que
hrv
cdo
spa
ang
bcl
spa
ita
bul
tat
gle
koi
mya
fas
lin
bpy
ina
crh
bcl
kat
spa
nob
lit
tha
kor
ang
mya
sco
swa
spa
pan
mal
hif
lug
khm
pam
nav
stq
nds
pan
ton
min
epo
slv
bod
nep
kbd
als
swe
egl
ibo
khm
nap
ell
rue
mkd
udm
orm
hrv
amh
nso
bho
swe
oci
ton
tel
dty
khm
spa
pnb
tam
mlg
kat
krc
ast
nav
ile
vls
ces
als
mal
srp
deu
bre
cbk
tat
mdf
fry
kat
pan
bcl
jav
mai
ton
ron
kom
wln
mlg
bxr
nep
fry
kom
rue
new
ang
koi
rup
vol
spa
vol
bjn
bel
csb
ckb
ksh
eng
asm
nan
ksh
epo
map-bms
urd
guj
vls
cor
ang
ukr
srd
be-tarask
tha
sqi
slv
amh
lez
kor
mon
roa-tara
cbk
tet
glg
lit
bar
khm
orm
ell
be-tarask
lit
hrv
mai
srd
ltg
pan
sqi
zea
nav
koi
kat
gla
roa-tara
kaz
sna
deu
lao
spa
lav
mon
egl
mlg
tha
sqi
nso
lat
pol
nep
bod
swe
csb
yid
afr
mlg
mlt
rup
urd
jbo
kat
lrc
pag
ind
roh
aym
bxr
grn
tcy
div
sco
ckb
mlt
jav
nan
egl
hak
ksh
sqi
oss
fin
oci
ron
cbk
glk
slv
roh
myv
udm
hin
hif
lmo
pap
bpy
swa
spa
cat
ara
scn
glg
snd
lim
ang
hun
bcl
guj
als
vol
ile
jbo
map-bms
aze
ceb
nds-nl
kor
nav
hrv
vie
dan
sin
kbd
pdc
vep
ile
san
san
hif
tur
nap
lao
oss
lav
ace
tam
ltg
nan
epo
ita
ton
dty
oci
ace
tcy
min
che
amh
roa-tara
lit
vol
ita
tha
hbs
tha
cbk
amh
vls
asm
eng
kbd
est
uig
oss
dsb
sqi
sin
slk
yid
sco
san
bho
wln
kan
pdc
por
frp
aze
ron
bod
guj
hbs
ksh
nso
ext
mon
sgs
rup
bul
asm
cym
kan
fao
ibo
uig
ind
kom
lez
isl
mon
ukr
mai
glg
bod
cym
tyv
nrm
nds-nl
ceb
mri
ceb
aze
lez
lin
pag
myv
bho
snd
udm
epo
bho
mhr
dan
kat
que
ceb
tyv
epo
myv
jav
xho
eng
dsb
tyv
pdc
sgs
ron
mdf
ckb
mlg
cor
pap
olo
ltg
tcy
map-bms
khm
mya
kin
cym
ron
arg
hif
ile
map-bms
cor
ina
mkd
krc
lim
be-tarask
new
nav
tyv
tcy
aym
sme
uig
aze
que
vie
isl
gag
jav
isl
pus
hif
fin
srd
cor
bpy
vol
dan
ang
ace
ina
xmf
srp
lug
sin
pag
ori
oci
cdo
msa
hif
lmo
xmf
lug
isl
vls
slv
glv
cor
map-bms
kaz
roa-tara
eus
gla
kin
nds-nl
kaz
nld
cos
mdf
ces
ast
bar
afr
mar
que
bul
bxr
kan
bre
ceb
zea
oss
nso
bar
dsb
tsn
arg
rup
est
tgl
nno
sme
tet
tha
amh
slv
lrc
ang
lez
sna
pnb
dan
khm
srn
map-bms
ceb
amh
srp
crh
fur
lug
gag
stq
est
ava
min
msa
mlg
tur
div
bod
slk
udm
mhr
nno
bho
crh
nno
oss
slv
tel
epo
ind
mdf
ile
mai
sqi
lat
tel
kin
vls
bxr
csb
ukr
uig
yid
tha
ang
min
bcl
fur
hin
cos
lad
pag
lat
amh
fas
lin
pnb
map-bms
lad
koi
tsn
arg
lmo
eng
gle
lin
csb
ang
bjn
kat
bul
bcl
yid
lao
deu
san
jav
als
sco
nld
hsb
msa
ast
sco
ces
slv
dsb
bul
jpn
que
rus
cbk
bul
zea
swa
vep
ces
bxr
epo
srd
nds-nl
lat
nrm
nds
hat
pnb
myv
ibo
cym
lad
kor
kbd
cat
por
vie
nds-nl
cdo
glk
uig
ile
bpy
swa
jbo
fry
slk
vls
myv
pdc
slv
nep
ell
lmo
oci
bpy
kor
hye
nob
gla
stq
san
tcy
grn
fas
ori
pam
kan
sgs
pol
ava
mri
tet
cos
gag
tha
xmf
vls
wln
srn
ind
ace
tam
ksh
nan
ile
slk
oss
gag
lmo
ori
nep
pdc
hsb
kaz
orm
xho
jav
ukr
afr
ara
urd
zea
tyv
bel
be-tarask
tat
vie
scn
que
hsb
lat
msa
deu
deu
egl
por
lin
mya
lav
war
mlg
mdf
hrv
nso
gle
fry
wln
rus
nav
ext
als
bho
jbo
frp
jav
roh
war
pan
pus
tcy
mkd
tat
uig
pam
bxr
pfl
glv
srp
tsn
ext
be-tarask
lin
map-bms
epo
guj
glg
jav
dan
kat
tgl
lao
gag
sqi
vie
msa
udm
sna
eus
kan
rus
lrc
glv
nso
roh
koi
nso
tel
new
che
srd
olo
isl
spa
mar
bho
koi
pap
ile
kom
ron
hsb
eus
sgs
urd
tha
bcl
roh
tha
hak
por
ile
vep
slv
tsn
kaz
bho
glv
hat
cos
tur
glk
pus
roa-tara
khm
bul
lmo
tam
tgl
bel
nld
arg
tet
sco
hak
lez
srp
glk
sna
yid
bxr
cdo
asm
swa
que
tcy
uig
rus
hye
fur
mal
gla
que
mai
ina
dty
mdf
tyv
nso
nld
kor
srd
amh
hrv
che
hye
bul
lmo
stq
bod
vie
ori
vep
nap
be-tarask
ces
ceb
bxr
nap
swa
ukr
bul
pcd
ina
tat
urd
kom
lmo
ori
hin
als
ace
hif
aze
nno
ita
aze
ceb
vie
rup
pus
urd
mkd
pcd
div
ron
nav
rup
rue
koi
ava
uig
ces
kaz
tsn
hak
vep
map-bms
rup
glk
spa
pcd
vls
est
ibo
bel
pan
lat
bxr
yid
ile
cor
fur
amh
mal
kor
kaz
tam
pan
swe
nep
bul
kan
kor
nds-nl
hun
por
nso
vep
arg
vol
roh
cor
cos
tha
kaz
sco
cdo
nrm
lao
yid
pcd
bre
xho
tgl
csb
ukr
bul
cat
mai
bcl
tet
sco
uig
fra
glv
ces
sna
mlt
swe
pcd
lmo
grn
dan
que
spa
dsb
pag
cos
bxr
roh
pam
tel
mar
kin
gla
uig
mar
nan
cdo
rue
vep
tel
san
myv
cdo
ces
est
glk
crh
lez
hsb
urd
ile
srn
ukr
san
kat
tat
que
ibo
pnb
mkd
stq
koi
cbk
ceb
vol
eng
hrv
ceb
lrc
arg
scn
egl
ita
tgl
rue
vep
nld
fry
mon
pap
swe
lav
mya
sin
nds-nl
xho
glv
crh
cbk
nso
hun
fao
sin
jbo
cdo
xho
tur
lin
lin
krc
jav
epo
kom
mri
ckb
pfl
tam
oss
cym
bho
tet
vls
nds-nl
fur
vol
deu
grn
sqi
slv
che
mon
nep
zea
be-tarask
bho
swe
ast
arg
lit
msa
pol
ang
aze
mar
tsn
glv
mar
nld
map-bms
pdc
lit
csb
bxr
arg
krc
glg
tgl
tam
tgl
eus
kin
lao
lim
koi
nep
nrm
mdf
grn
ksh
slk
xmf
nan
hin
min
cym
sme
hun
ron
lad
mai
dan
nan
kor
slv
mon
kaz
aym
yid
srn
koi
mwl
stq
ceb
san
ext
tel
nap
est
pap
ava
pus
slv
yid
pan
nrm
kan
srd
mai
epo
dty
zea
tha
vls
ita
srd
nno
nld
mai
mar
hbs
egl
ksh
mon
lad
fin
ell
orm
nan
swe
jbo
ell
bod
mal
csb
msa
tha
cbk
mon
grn
pap
kat
ceb
cym
roa-tara
lao
tat
bul
mkd
kaz
pfl
cdo
oci
bho
nav
san
vie
be-tarask
als
tcy
msa
fas
spa
bjn
eng
vol
kor
roa-tara
als
lez
frp
ang
ltg
snd
ton
kat
mlg
ori
ava
roh
orm
pap
bul
cbk
fra
arg
sgs
cym
frp
glv
lav
tha
pus
ltg
bel
pdc
ceb
nds
mkd
dty
dsb
tsn
nds-nl
bre
amh
ori
fry
lit
krc
sme
jpn
cos
bel
tel
khm
tcy
tyv
ceb
roh
myv
pol
mar
rup
bjn
jav
hrv
sco
jpn
orm
pcd
ksh
mar
bar
mwl
ces
afr
slv
lit
dan
tel
hat
gle
rus
swa
afr
map-bms
urd
nob
dty
bod
fin
ukr
guj
myv
grn
ell
spa
ces
lao
tha
nds
deu
hak
oci
jbo
bel
fas
cdo
vie
hye
hsb
ksh
ang
san
ton
mlg
mdf
hak
isl
nep
pfl
ang
urd
lim
frp
oss
ang
vol
lez
tsn
lin
sqi
eus
vol
srd
deu
amh
bxr
vie
sme
ang
asm
lao
ksh
que
mhr
eng
nno
nso
cos
ukr
stq
ace
sqi
nan
yid
vol
ltg
cat
guj
dty
mri
uig
mlg
min
orm
udm
lrc
por
pfl
mri
nld
lat
war
xho
srp
vls
als
tam
hat
cdo
kaz
tel
lin
cdo
mai
cdo
ceb
ace
fur
mon
xho
koi
be-tarask
nep
ina
oci
afr
dty
bod
pus
roa-tara
myv
dsb
afr
sgs
pdc
bul
sna
ara
bxr
lat
gag
gle
ara
ina
lez
glk
roh
csb
san
lug
war
hye
pan
jav
glg
krc
grn
cym
egl
tha
asm
srp
swe
glv
orm
spa
nan
lad
ces
afr
kan
kan
ind
tel
map-bms
be-tarask
glv
min
map-bms
csb
hrv
nob
ksh
fra
fry
san
urd
pfl
sgs
fra
epo
fas
fra
krc
roa-tara
uig
hun
cat
nno
mlt
jbo
pol
mai
nds
fur
tur
gla
por
jav
pus
afr
ell
bcl
vol
pag
mlg
rus
als
ita
mhr
stq
sna
nds
bpy
pag
isl
csb
urd
fra
lez
grn
vls
dty
tcy
udm
egl
hun
sgs
ext
aze
rus
nob
frp
hin
urd
pag
rus
kan
tat
slv
hbs
nds
vep
srd
krc
ckb
eng
ile
fur
ast
fry
nds
ita
aym
pdc
swa
ukr
cym
lez
pam
udm
swe
khm
myv
guj
map-bms
sgs
mar
arg
grn
vls
lrc
ces
tel
nds-nl
nap
hrv
swe
jbo
kin
lav
mlt
vie
tyv
slv
zea
ksh
dty
mhr
por
orm
nep
nds-nl
glk
eus
cbk
kin
myv
zea
ile
yid
que
kin
fra
hsb
uig
ksh
new
lat
aym
bul
lat
fao
map-bms
kbd
tgl
bar
hak
ind
afr
mri
bul
pam
sme
hak
udm
snd
kat
mri
oci
lit
afr
bjn
nep
hbs
div
hin
san
asm
tcy
ind
war
lao
egl
udm
glk
cym
sin
pdc
glg
cbk
vep
isl
ckb
amh
asm
hat
oci
wln
amh
srn
pap
fry
fur
kbd
olo
asm
mkd
sgs
guj
vls
ace
ava
srp
pcd
ton
mhr
glk
mal
min
tha
ceb
yid
ksh
eng
sme
hin
nso
bel
kaz
stq
asm
vol
mlg
gla
bpy
snd
tel
ina
yid
ksh
bre
bar
mar
lad
amh
bxr
ceb
new
grn
ces
arg
cbk
ltg
pap
nav
cbk
war
roa-tara
map-bms
jav
gla
swe
bpy
kom
hif
kaz
ind
eus
new
guj
mri
kaz
fur
amh
nep
tgl
ron
tha
srd
nso
fao
jbo
eus
pnb
amh
ext
ara
grn
eus
lez
roh
koi
ces
mwl
lit
tcy
mya
pag
bre
bel
asm
glg
ile
kat
che
zea
xmf
mar
cym
hsb
bul
che
msa
que
mkd
mya
nob
hak
cym
yid
lim
nan
guj
hsb
ace
rue
krc
bod
bcl
sqi
bho
jbo
jav
que
lez
tha
lez
oss
asm
rup
nap
als
fry
ukr
ita
fas
khm
eus
sgs
xmf
ext
sna
pag
lim
ang
nrm
mai
tel
mri
bjn
lmo
pfl
nep
tur
nld
nso
ukr
lav
mlt
sme
sco
urd
tet
che
amh
sin
ton
khm
hye
vol
xho
jav
amh
ibo
tam
lez
pnb
vls
pag
gag
ina
ori
koi
afr
hak
rue
est
ksh
bxr
new
lmo
srn
xmf
oss
msa
slv
sme
lit
srn
por
crh
bre
fry
koi
lit
cbk
mai
lao
tet
sin
pnb
be-tarask
war
cat
sgs
mkd
lin
lav
bul
sin
tam
ori
nob
uig
be-tarask
isl
mhr
ext
slv
vol
kin
ceb
dsb
nso
nrm
asm
ile
nld
isl
ace
ext
ast
bar
che
roh
nap
grn
ina
fin
pap
aze
swa
tgl
vie
vep
mal
tgl
frp
pcd
pus
ceb
pnb
ckb
vol
msa
guj
ast
pcd
hun
hin
uig
lim
fas
kom
pdc
ind
new
tyv
ita
guj
gle
vep
lad
ina
ksh
hbs
lin
sqi
tsn
krc
new
jpn
ara
egl
eng
yid
nan
guj
rup
bxr
pol
myv
ces
epo
por
aym
lav
mlt
kat
fao
ces
scn
snd
mya
swa
vol
dty
bre
pag
mdf
kbd
que
epo
nep
pus
egl
ibo
lmo
epo
ast
amh
ksh
pan
min
ina
gle
jbo
jav
srd
sme
ava
ltg
srp
jav
dan
zea
lmo
lrc
scn
ind
glg
mal
eus
eus
tat
kom
jav
pfl
msa
ace
war
nno
nld
rus
csb
koi
bod
swa
glg
glg
ckb
hye
pcd
sqi
koi
nan
hsb
ina
nav
grn
che
fry
ava
mri
bpy
tgl
egl
eus
cdo
zea
lad
uig
cat
koi
cbk
dty
nob
aym
dty
amh
oss
isl
pus
uig
aym
lez
yid
als
nld
arg
cym
swa
xmf
hat
lrc
crh
kom
oss
nso
vol
kaz
lmo
pan
spa
oci
pap
lmo
kin
kin
afr
kan
ksh
eng
mkd
srn
mal
hat
lmo
afr
deu
hye
lim
ang
vep
zea
aym
tyv
mai
mkd
oci
srp
lao
aze
kor
bar
min
ron
uig
pag
mdf
bod
nds
olo
uig
nap
fur
tsn
lad
fry
bul
srd
ton
vep
be-tarask
ell
hbs
amh
fas
ang
jbo
lug
xmf
oss
ile
isl
fur
sna
koi
cor
gle
mya
kaz
vls
orm
zea
ceb
roa-tara
mon
xho
mlt
nds-nl
lit
sgs
mai
min
ksh
cbk
mlg
tha
epo
min
hsb
nds-nl
afr
hsb
ile
fur
koi
ind
gle
bxr
vls
tet
vie
bul
koi
kat
roa-tara
sqi
orm
mya
dan
pam
cor
nno
asm
lad
hat
olo
pcd
pan
dan
sco
kin
que
tha
pag
sna
div
tat
hin
srd
tha
ast
be-tarask
mon
san
khm
hin
bho
tcy
kan
hrv
min
fin
gla
epo
vie
pdc
lat
pcd
lao
nld
lao
spa
hye
uig
isl
tur
lad
sna
mwl
pdc
ang
deu
nno
pfl
pap
spa
koi
eus
ara
urd
sgs
bcl
ltg
amh
fur
bre
que
new
hun
lin
pap
lez
nds-nl
tgl
ita
pnb
pol
swa
lao
asm
pnb
mar
nep
nds-nl
ton
pdc
nds
ukr
nds-nl
kan
spa
tam
cos
hbs
srp
jav
oci
est
san
vol
glk
tur
por
tat
ara
pap
ckb
ang
spa
map-bms
jpn
crh
roa-tara
ibo
grn
tam
fao
ron
mkd
srp
por
tet
xmf
epo
mri
koi
egl
hin
hun
bho
dty
lin
koi
srd
sqi
ava
fin
fry
ace
lmo
pus
grn
pam
hye
mkd
kbd
pus
pdc
nno
hak
jbo
lug
nds
ita
yid
lug
srd
nrm
hak
tyv
pol
ceb
kat
sqi
srd
glg
dan
rus
hbs
nds-nl
lad
bcl
eng
dsb
sqi
scn
mhr
eng
vie
asm
hat
sqi
war
ukr
koi
pfl
kin
lao
nep
dsb
myv
glv
jav
roa-tara
bpy
pnb
wln
jpn
kat
urd
hbs
nld
xmf
nav
pan
ang
pdc
mdf
urd
srn
sco
ina
ckb
bel
lmo
rup
isl
jbo
nan
mkd
nld
roh
guj
ina
lez
ara
xmf
bul
grn
nap
pus
kor
mon
srn
aze
lez
fry
hak
olo
srn
ori
lug
hif
vls
lmo
crh
hsb
sqi
ces
mon
pus
cdo
bjn
gag
ile
tgl
nrm
mwl
wln
tsn
arg
bpy
por
krc
grn
tet
bxr
srn
lav
csb
ksh
bho
khm
eus
pfl
koi
aym
dsb
fin
msa
war
cym
bul
hye
nob
nld
grn
vls
epo
tat
ron
cbk
hun
kin
lim
hye
bho
eus
ell
kan
vie
xmf
cym
tet
ltg
bel
nrm
cor
hif
yid
jpn
rus
xho
pus
fao
tha
roh
min
lez
ltg
srn
xho
sna
fas
dsb
ita
lim
mkd
cor
isl
dsb
ell
vls
pcd
cor
ibo
krc
ina
nds-nl
ksh
sco
fry
oss
tsn
cat
myv
msa
pag
ina
bod
slv
eus
new
vep
war
srn
rup
por
amh
vie
eus
pcd
pcd
mdf
lrc
lrc
cdo
frp
msa
nds
nan
tgl
xho
pol
nob
fao
sqi
hsb
srn
deu
fas
fra
ltg
pap
ile
cor
ces
pan
rue
lin
afr
pol
yid
dan
pap
fur
fin
yid
hin
bcl
tsn
ita
bho
isl
aze
sna
oss
nrm
ast
mal
khm
glg
lrc
ang
crh
ces
pus
cor
vie
nds
cdo
vol
rue
roa-tara
cbk
tat
nld
srd
pol
hun
nrm
vol
cbk
myv
cor
ast
tgl
swe
oci
sqi
sme
mhr
hak
slk
tgl
mri
ita
nld
nds
ara
mar
sgs
sco
xho
war
scn
jav
new
bjn
ces
fra
roa-tara
rue
lrc
san
mai
fas
fas
kin
afr
wln
dan
hbs
pol
vls
fao
mal
tyv
isl
kaz
bre
est
yid
vol
wln
grn
wln
guj
ton
lao
ace
khm
ile
nan
est
gag
vls
vep
cym
egl
hif
spa
swa
be-tarask
xmf
uig
ltg
krc
kor
fas
fin
nav
cos
war
pfl
hak
ksh
pan
bxr
por
dsb
tur
csb
lad
scn
tyv
msa
est
ces
rue
bar
rup
hif
olo
afr
ava
sgs
tel
mai
nso
asm
ibo
tcy
nld
bul
hye
glk
frp
nso
mlg
bjn
stq
dty
kbd
che
msa
kin
ext
grn
sco
ang
uig
por
lad
hsb
nav
pcd
sna
cat
hat
bxr
sna
mkd
srn
tur
isl
srp
rus
gla
bjn
hin
egl
pan
orm
nno
rus
mal
myv
dty
srn
nep
ukr
epo
afr
vep
ast
tcy
fur
jpn
kbd
gle
sna
kan
tcy
pus
fao
lmo
sme
snd
asm
mya
kom
hsb
yid
srn
nav
bpy
que
srd
kor
amh
slk
aze
msa
roh
bel
frp
arg
oss
tsn
oss
nep
pdc
snd
kin
sme
tcy
guj
lmo
rus
grn
sco
glv
cor
nso
lmo
mai
be-tarask
ton
bpy
por
rue
lav
lit
tyv
cor
koi
tat
pfl
kin
hif
mhr
ceb
ext
bho
jbo
bul
kan
isl
epo
glk
pol
pan
srd
jav
mlg
pdc
glk
kbd
nso
que
ast
stq
snd
nep
oci
pap
krc
ind
scn
spa
lug
mwl
krc
hak
nan
min
bul
kin
mon
tyv
lit
tha
grn
cym
pap
olo
tam
nso
lez
bre
jpn
zea
mon
koi
afr
ksh
lim
tel
ast
cbk
hun
mdf
ara
xmf
cat
nrm
fur
dan
gag
arg
vep
pan
als
bod
war
bod
lim
ind
guj
nan
epo
gle
rue
nds-nl
ell
jav
oss
lim
fin
mwl
nav
wln
fur
bjn
pcd
slv
orm
krc
tat
nld
kat
afr
guj
lao
glv
als
pcd
map-bms
vie
rup
mlg
pam
ext
ext
ksh
mhr
bul
yid
new
mon
mri
cbk
tsn
sna
mhr
new
nso
kor
mai
dsb
nno
hsb
tat
tgl
ukr
scn
eng
glv
ukr
bre
krc
swa
tyv
tcy
ori
lmo
hak
gla
ori
cbk
kat
nrm
amh
nap
lez
ceb
bjn
spa
tyv
be-tarask
mar
als
lav
nds
hat
eus
eus
pam
vie
que
ori
tel
urd
hak
ast
lrc
nap
aym
hsb
ace
srn
sco
cor
che
bpy
tat
lav
cor
mal
map-bms
uig
pcd
ibo
pol
lav
krc
fry
bul
koi
bcl
lad
lat
ltg
zea
lim
xho
fur
ltg
nob
stq
crh
urd
snd
cos
cos
nep
rup
ltg
hsb
nap
vie
cym
lat
tyv
hak
por
ita
bho
stq
mar
map-bms
mon
krc
nob
cdo
mya
jav
oss
snd
frp
gla
lug
lit
fur
mlg
epo
que
eng
nds-nl
khm
div
ace
kin
mhr
min
kat
be-tarask
cor
kbd
san
hun
pdc
ceb
zea
guj
nob
nep
bel
roh
lim
yid
asm
ltg
lit
kaz
nso
che
sin
khm
mai
pol
dsb
scn
nav
tel
por
fas
pag
csb
hin
fur
lat
ind
mai
roh
ltg
tgl
fao
bre
sme
che
mlg
tat
tgl
mri
cor
nno
ast
kbd
amh
msa
bul
cym
egl
als
oss
pap
gle
bre
tat
swe
oss
snd
crh
tyv
pap
xho
kor
ang
mya
ori
dsb
bho
ksh
mdf
mdf
rue
rus
ron
fur
gle
dty
fur
urd
nob
lit
ang
ara
sme
pap
deu
bar
cym
tyv
lat
orm
tur
aym
fry
gla
nrm
fry
oci
afr
mwl
mri
est
nld
rup
bpy
krc
mal
koi
hin
xmf
lin
khm
bjn
ace
ava
krc
mlt
cor
ita
nld
por
frp
lat
uig
lez
ltg
tcy
scn
roa-tara
arg
eng
mon
min
mai
koi
nap
ces
sin
yid
als
ind
mon
pdc
tyv
sgs
kin
nds
stq
ori
egl
tel
mon
wln
nob
nso
mar
nrm
urd
glg
bxr
vls
glg
jpn
sna
nso
koi
afr
nav
oci
kbd
cym
tat
ita
lav
urd
pnb
ron
lav
khm
lim
nld
tam
war
pdc
lrc
lao
be-tarask
mlg
wln
srp
mal
cat
dty
oss
que
tet
kaz
tgl
krc
cbk
olo
cdo
ltg
aym
aym
olo
yid
dan
tam
cym
ang
vol
jav
guj
nds-nl
hin
hak
rup
lav
kbd
nav
ace
cat
hin
nav
aym
hat
gla
cos
oss
nld
slv
kan
est
kor
tha
vol
nrm
glg
cym
lad
ori
mar
rup
eus
fur
glg
hrv
nep
lrc
lav
rue
srd
bar
glg
orm
nrm
mri
sgs
lrc
tgl
guj
csb
ibo
asm
fao
deu
ksh
ina
hat
ces
lug
eng
jav
spa
cym
csb
ina
fur
bpy
xho
sqi
cat
ltg
che
nav
snd
bre
ukr
vls
slv
kbd
nav
hrv
kom
mwl
ckb
war
nld
glk
ang
pam
ksh
che
tam
dty
ibo
pam
nav
nds-nl
sco
ori
ina
uig
che
oci
tgl
div
mai
vol
kat
orm
sqi
ara
uig
srd
ara
krc
bel
ceb
pap
koi
csb
hun
xho
ile
isl
mhr
jav
ara
nap
glg
kat
cos
hak
egl
kaz
ile
mar
sna
che
oss
sin
lav
lug
hun
fin
als
pag
srn
lin
pap
ast
vls
ces
epo
pus
bxr
tcy
grn
pol
fin
bjn
kat
hif
hin
dan
lad
aze
spa
nan
vep
cdo
mdf
bjn
jpn
lug
dty
map-bms
ori
myv
hbs
bul
hrv
mhr
mlt
glk
eus
nav
ron
lrc
nap
dan
nso
wln
ita
ltg
tgl
bpy
kor
nep
olo
khm
fry
tsn
lim
snd
fas
che
vie
tha
afr
nds
mri
kom
spa
san
war
ces
ori
lim
glk
jpn
krc
glg
mwl
war
rup
new
arg
tyv
ind
kor
pfl
fao
csb
ace
pcd
tet
lez
pan
egl
lad
mwl
mdf
cat
tyv
new
bxr
san
vep
vie
ckb
lit
roh
mon
mwl
bho
fur
guj
ara
hbs
tgl
scn
isl
pfl
lim
pus
ind
arg
lao
spa
myv
stq
fao
ita
san
rup
udm
dty
nrm
mwl
dty
nrm
ind
mal
hin
lin
csb
orm
ell
bho
lao
ita
sgs
mar
aym
lao
ina
ron
gag
mal
bul
nrm
hbs
roh
egl
rup
pan
nap
ksh
ori
hif
bod
oci
amh
tur
afr
kat
epo
dsb
kbd
bjn
lit
bel
spa
por
csb
tcy
pam
spa
mar
arg
fin
ukr
kbd
swe
ell
nds-nl
bod
mlg
nno
bod
bul
ltg
ext
tat
jpn
san
msa
spa
ell
udm
sme
mai
bho
pcd
fao
lin
wln
mar
pam
ind
frp
bre
pap
hun
hsb
san
tsn
slv
tel
kaz
stq
bho
rus
mdf
afr
kat
nrm
cat
tcy
jpn
pdc
jav
pan
bxr
ace
por
por
uig
lez
nav
sgs
nrm
ukr
mwl
tgl
myv
bel
vep
srp
sin
ind
div
cor
ind
fas
afr
scn
jbo
pol
fao
nap
be-tarask
crh
cym
hat
san
ibo
hif
uig
bel
jpn
mlg
bul
est
lmo
jpn
dan
por
rus
kom
oss
ces
min
fur
nds
tam
oss
mhr
pdc
tsn
cdo
udm
pnb
mdf
ltg
ita
pfl
hak
war
jav
min
mwl
mri
hat
nan
oci
cat
dan
ron
ita
nob
ces
deu
div
bjn
myv
grn
lao
sna
ceb
swa
nav
nld
dty
nap
dsb
fao
als
pdc
fas
krc
bcl
krc
nob
dty
orm
koi
hif
nrm
mya
arg
pap
nav
wln
csb
nrm
nan
sco
mar
por
kom
uig
lim
isl
fra
sin
bxr
tha
hrv
fas
ind
fur
nep
bar
mlt
orm
ukr
nep
aym
kan
vie
mon
cat
eng
slk
mlg
msa
div
yid
lez
guj
nds-nl
nav
ind
vls
min
kom
kaz
mai
mon
oss
hif
myv
dty
bod
lrc
snd
pag
sqi
hye
srn
map-bms
cym
vol
nan
srp
dan
koi
tat
nld
orm
hye
lad
oss
lad
pol
tha
swa
deu
nso
cos
ace
mkd
vol
csb
kin
nds-nl
che
nds
dsb
mal
bcl
urd
mon
fra
fao
sqi
aze
que
nap
hat
sco
ori
mai
kan
sin
hbs
mkd
mai
ibo
udm
sin
lmo
ckb
che
mhr
new
mon
kaz
pol
nds
crh
hin
ace
glg
ron
san
cdo
tam
pdc
cbk
eng
als
jbo
swe
pdc
san
pap
tam
srd
bjn
cos
fur
rup
dty
min
kom
eus
que
kaz
afr
mwl
kaz
ces
cym
dan
dan
cor
pfl
lim
cym
est
lat
cor
ces
lav
nds-nl
jpn
mon
xho
bpy
lez
ukr
rup
ita
dsb
jav
pan
bel
ceb
nan
rup
wln
rue
oci
pap
aym
lrc
egl
xho
xho
vol
ibo
udm
snd
fin
tyv
xho
pan
msa
hsb
bxr
frp
lav
ron
hsb
wln
krc
tur
msa
ces
tgl
koi
mon
mal
cos
gle
pap
lav
kor
hak
ibo
new
nld
nso
ava
tat
mar
pan
fur
san
ton
tsn
pap
mkd
nds-nl
bcl
kbd
lit
nso
che
urd
eus
guj
arg
gag
guj
pol
ext
ara
kbd
kaz
kor
ces
ace
vls
nav
hif
tyv
mon
hrv
epo
hye
isl
nno
ukr
sgs
war
min
lin
che
cym
ron
fry
amh
ces
swa
glk
isl
bho
jav
myv
urd
hat
xho
mar
cat
tet
nan
isl
sgs
swe
tha
war
asm
bho
ace
bcl
kor
nds
ara
ton
mai
nan
isl
lin
lat
sme
csb
gag
jav
nep
hbs
fas
afr
ile
olo
zea
glg
bpy
nso
hye
dty
isl
nav
grn
est
jav
nds-nl
san
sco
urd
koi
bel
nso
sna
cor
pus
nds-nl
bcl
guj
pdc
tsn
sco
gla
sin
glv
sin
ckb
nld
kat
crh
gag
bod
swa
lez
mya
cat
egl
pam
tam
rup
bho
eus
tha
pcd
sin
eng
roa-tara
mhr
srp
be-tarask
ext
ara
lao
lit
pnb
orm
pag
pol
hrv
hbs
crh
aym
nap
lmo
mlt
dan
fra
dan
oci
bod
ksh
kan
ell
frp
aym
mai
hif
tur
zea
bul
pdc
fao
hin
mlg
aym
ind
urd
udm
bxr
epo
snd
ita
tsn
eus
bar
pnb
fin
tsn
eus
kat
tat
mhr
mar
san
mwl
hin
nds
bcl
afr
jbo
arg
srn
myv
mwl
arg
tam
kom
new
hun
ang
glk
nav
yid
est
mar
kor
guj
myv
deu
srp
mlg
ces
pag
amh
lav
lad
eng
vol
hun
lao
sgs
nds
xmf
jpn
vie
fin
pam
ita
mri
ind
mlt
lit
nob
pag
nan
pnb
tyv
kat
tel
bre
kom
kom
stq
orm
rue
cat
ces
stq
dty
hun
est
arg
glg
myv
war
zea
sin
jpn
swa
mlt
dty
che
sna
amh
mai
wln
new
xho
dan
asm
isl
ton
ibo
ceb
mlg
ind
pam
bul
myv
glk
pus
gag
rus
sqi
slv
deu
ron
rus
pfl
frp
kor
myv
que
lao
fao
ind
pus
swa
aze
jav
ace
bxr
hye
gle
arg
est
mai
tur
mkd
kom
nrm
mhr
lez
nso
msa
ina
kaz
map-bms
pan
sgs
deu
kin
tam
ceb
lin
bod
pnb
gla
hsb
lit
nld
ell
egl
grn
lez
gla
ori
pdc
stq
new
pdc
nno
bel
mon
cbk
tur
sna
lim
isl
mai
oss
lat
nds-nl
mwl
deu
xmf
gla
nds-nl
lad
nav
nds
que
ina
lad
krc
tsn
kan
lad
eng
war
udm
ext
tyv
tsn
bul
cos
srd
fur
new
lmo
orm
hsb
khm
cor
xmf
hak
sme
pfl
fry
hun
vep
por
sin
san
arg
new
nan
tyv
bxr
nso
jbo
csb
kom
als
arg
bar
orm
srp
sna
sme
sco
pap
guj
hak
srp
koi
ace
nds
sco
sqi
glv
ton
tam
srp
kin
tyv
grn
ita
ace
nan
ace
nrm
ang
hye
cat
srn
frp
eng
cor
asm
bpy
khm
bul
nds-nl
ava
ina
grn
zea
lin
mhr
khm
dan
kin
nno
fur
egl
lmo
war
ksh
bpy
ltg
mri
grn
ell
bho
ksh
nav
pfl
tha
tur
wln
glv
lit
nso
mri
nds-nl
ind
tha
nso
bre
egl
bcl
urd
div
por
roa-tara
slk
san
bel
sna
krc
mya
vie
div
glg
dsb
ina
ksh
srp
grn
sqi
isl
epo
tcy
afr
bod
kbd
udm
sin
ori
mai
ksh
bod
zea
zea
bcl
hrv
min
tsn
bpy
ext
bar
div
crh
lav
lav
nan
xho
slk
vol
hrv
lug
pus
mlg
ron
kom
grn
new
ast
nep
ast
gla
kaz
swe
dty
glv
glv
vep
lez
slk
srn
mlt
gag
lad
pan
hun
hak
lit
tsn
udm
mdf
ukr
gag
ltg
dsb
pcd
bre
mlt
ell
vie
hun
kaz
ron
ukr
glk
csb
mwl
nso
sme
ina
ell
ava
slk
oci
min
map-bms
ron
fra
ara
ibo
lug
fra
bel
ckb
nob
glv
bjn
pag
swa
sna
tat
xho
bpy
jbo
lrc
crh
lug
cbk
bod
myv
orm
ita
mya
lad
srd
min
dty
ext
mkd
myv
stq
san
sgs
ukr
hun
ara
glg
ltg
fra
ile
hif
ell
ext
tcy
ces
div
bxr
lmo
ceb
tha
lat
fas
lez
gag
vie
lmo
srp
jbo
koi
nep
bcl
eus
mlt
glg
koi
jav
dty
glk
cbk
glv
csb
tha
amh
cor
arg
bxr
kom
isl
tet
kan
bul
ukr
urd
aze
kin
mar
aym
grn
cbk
srp
ceb
khm
fin
slv
hbs
jpn
hat
pol
bod
ckb
vls
nep
sqi
nob
nso
hsb
roa-tara
min
tat
hun
jav
srd
oci
mwl
est
bpy
rus
glk
urd
mai
cor
kan
hun
aze
egl
koi
kaz
asm
ast
urd
fas
olo
kaz
bho
lin
sqi
hrv
xmf
sco
rus
ltg
xho
nds-nl
gla
udm
pfl
map-bms
ava
grn
lat
tet
pus
bar
gle
map-bms
spa
kan
dan
mkd
bul
ina
sme
oci
bod
tgl
urd
zea
che
ast
nep
aze
vep
roh
por
lmo
kaz
ibo
be-tarask
tur
hak
spa
div
kom
lad
bod
eus
cdo
por
scn
epo
orm
hif
bcl
fry
amh
mai
ind
mon
kan
ksh
zea
cbk
swe
ita
nav
ltg
srd
ceb
lez
spa
nno
egl
uig
glk
nob
tyv
roh
kin
kan
new
hsb
che
jav
sqi
bre
eng
krc
ara
swa
cdo
swa
bod
spa
war
sna
bpy
glg
swe
ori
crh
ang
tcy
cat
stq
nob
glg
fao
pag
bel
pam
oss
lin
nep
lad
pdc
khm
khm
nap
jbo
pap
bod
rue
map-bms
mkd
pam
roa-tara
yid
rue
bjn
fas
lim
fao
xho
tyv
asm
lat
mlt
wln
pdc
mon
glg
hat
hat
new
lmo
lug
mar
guj
slk
mya
gag
aze
bpy
est
lin
swe
srd
hif
nan
vls
war
kom
deu
ina
mdf
mya
lad
pap
tat
hye
rue
ita
isl
kom
vep
pcd
glk
arg
fin
kin
ukr
glg
afr
wln
map-bms
pap
swe
nds-nl
gag
fao
hun
roh
ori
lug
lat
stq
mal
nds-nl
tet
hye
khm
fra
tcy
koi
kbd
xmf
srd
xmf
mlg
yid
ast
kor
swa
nds-nl
kbd
gla
gle
mya
jbo
bpy
lim
hak
eus
jpn
pfl
oci
nld
ltg
rue
ext
hif
hif
ang
aze
new
ori
div
min
urd
pap
crh
ton
fin
grn
hun
ava
guj
frp
myv
orm
mya
grn
war
guj
div
uig
roh
dsb
koi
bod
aze
nep
pan
bre
fas
tur
ibo
kin
ceb
spa
arg
bcl
roh
oci
ell
sna
zea
guj
lin
pag
uig
nob
mlt
ksh
san
rup
pol
nso
por
jbo
als
roa-tara
mdf
pcd
crh
spa
gag
gag
bul
lmo
rup
ina
nav
ltg
hif
grn
jav
aym
mdf
hye
olo
pam
nav
lao
mdf
nep
msa
hif
jav
sna
jpn
mlg
srp
isl
pan
nep
sme
ina
kan
nan
epo
pnb
mya
ita
hbs
xmf
rus
vls
cat
bho
new
fry
vie
dan
ara
uig
sin
fao
bjn
mar
pol
lez
ang
eus
cdo
war
stq
mya
eng
sgs
pnb
sme
stq
sna
ksh
bod
als
pus
crh
srp
kat
vie
gle
srn
bjn
slv
jpn
dan
nds
kor
san
tha
sna
nrm
nds
deu
nap
ext
cat
bul
uig
bel
lmo
krc
cor
srd
nob
nld
bho
div
oci
krc
eng
est
lug
glv
lim
tat
oci
lmo
nld
grn
orm
epo
mwl
bcl
pan
isl
spa
ukr
hak
csb
olo
snd
lao
crh
gag
nob
jav
fra
pfl
pdc
nav
sin
ksh
orm
mar
nld
gag
mal
lim
tur
lin
tha
por
tam
tha
fur
olo
aze
ind
pan
mwl
grn
lao
mar
san
ori
xho
cor
zea
pdc
zea
pus
hun
mri
bul
afr
sgs
hak
bar
mal
hin
wln
tha
lat
ukr
sgs
sgs
fra
ind
xmf
mlg
hif
sco
lin
pag
ext
snd
krc
swa
vie
nob
jpn
eng
kor
est
sna
aym
lug
glg
pan
srp
jav
snd
bel
csb
sin
rus
cat
lin
por
tat
myv
nds
ori
frp
nan
lrc
bxr
slk
mwl
frp
yid
msa
lez
vol
zea
zea
slv
min
spa
que
tgl
lin
kin
hak
que
msa
srd
slk
hye
pap
lim
hbs
por
ukr
mkd
nso
gla
fao
ron
mon
ace
aze
scn
gla
snd
new
por
amh
ang
fra
ell
fao
kom
mon
que
tel
ltg
lim
ext
mhr
sco
ext
slk
fin
ara
zea
glg
deu
est
msa
lit
mar
bxr
nrm
rup
hak
tsn
urd
cor
est
sco
fur
fur
ara
nav
oss
div
ceb
vep
gag
tet
bel
new
guj
mlt
mya
ang
ell
kom
be-tarask
ava
kan
glk
arg
oci
aym
scn
yid
deu
sna
jav
pag
fur
nob
frp
jav
epo
ori
xmf
lav
nav
slv
kin
cat
kat
nno
hif
ori
oci
kat
fas
srn
pdc
wln
srn
roa-tara
pcd
min
be-tarask
csb
xmf
oci
crh
bxr
be-tarask
ibo
ron
bel
fin
xmf
fry
sgs
ukr
rus
ang
ell
ukr
ang
cbk
tyv
fao
nav
tur
ind
pol
amh
ces
bul
mai
glg
dsb
hun
min
afr
eus
krc
ces
lin
lim
tam
ava
pus
srd
nav
mai
amh
ces
ori
ibo
jav
ace
pol
sme
vol
nan
mkd
ltg
mai
nav
xho
zea
ast
pan
dsb
tgl
kor
nno
mwl
jpn
als
kan
tat
bul
glg
tet
rue
khm
lat
ext
nno
roh
ksh
pan
hbs
nrm
rup
lin
ibo
sco
be-tarask
por
epo
que
eng
gla
bcl
roa-tara
ace
mya
cbk
snd
pfl
pdc
hak
bho
rup
xmf
por
xmf
afr
sco
fry
fao
mya
cor
ace
oci
por
epo
kan
tur
gla
udm
ksh
afr
bel
mkd
bpy
rus
lez
sqi
nob
nep
pnb
new
ang
nap
ltg
lim
che
hak
nan
aym
stq
tet
ibo
guj
guj
lez
fin
hrv
sin
vol
ita
ell
vep
msa
egl
afr
mar
hye
pfl
arg
afr
map-bms
nap
swa
hin
ukr
ori
fas
pcd
mlt
oss
amh
kor
sqi
ita
ukr
bod
est
pfl
pol
srn
ile
sqi
sin
min
pap
ava
mkd
lin
jav
amh
ell
jbo
kat
udm
bod
ast
srn
ava
pcd
fao
cym
hat
sna
hak
jbo
ast
ace
pcd
fas
eng
dan
mwl
bcl
ara
scn
pfl
kat
sqi
ast
grn
pus
ton
kaz
lao
mlt
be-tarask
egl
ast
fin
bod
gla
ron
ell
hat
srd
sqi
aym
ceb
khm
xmf
ast
ltg
hun
ast
myv
nld
khm
lad
dan
pus
eus
bel
gle
ina
pcd
nap
cat
lim
ibo
ori
hye
koi
swe
san
tur
nrm
khm
rup
ava
pol
be-tarask
ibo
xho
kaz
dan
lim
swe
dty
lez
sgs
roh
lug
gag
amh
tha
nap
fao
olo
cos
spa
mon
ces
cor
guj
myv
cdo
swe
mlg
que
bjn
por
gag
srn
sna
grn
tur
ita
fas
afr
sna
sqi
che
ukr
ces
kbd
nld
tel
aym
min
tat
olo
tyv
che
lat
lim
glv
vep
slv
roa-tara
guj
bar
mkd
mal
mri
dty
nob
ile
tcy
hye
new
ukr
bod
kbd
urd
xho
glg
pol
kaz
por
mkd
sco
tsn
kin
ell
ron
pap
khm
vol
cym
map-bms
mar
lin
gla
ceb
urd
ces
ind
gle
map-bms
lao
hat
lao
mri
tcy
dan
xmf
rus
bho
glk
div
swa
cbk
tha
slv
bcl
roa-tara
jpn
jpn
stq
pan
eus
que
kan
rus
mri
ara
aze
nld
roh
ext
bjn
nso
swa
tcy
aym
uig
kin
nap
nso
ind
afr
cat
bod
glv
csb
epo
csb
mri
frp
als
rue
ang
hye
hye
hif
fra
lav
sme
min
afr
min
rue
isl
afr
scn
mon
tyv
bcl
bel
fas
pcd
jpn
afr
tam
nds
afr
als
hun
tsn
mya
pdc
roh
fur
cat
pan
cym
pus
glk
sqi
pfl
crh
olo
urd
grn
orm
tha
hak
rup
dsb
swa
pol
orm
sgs
ara
nrm
ast
ara
slk
udm
hun
slk
pdc
bar
sgs
fry
glg
ori
roa-tara
kan
glv
lez
fry
lao
tel
div
pan
mlt
olo
map-bms
lin
aym
mar
nld
tyv
gla
ksh
new
bxr
hbs
asm
cbk
mkd
kat
pap
kaz
tha
ksh
ang
lin
tyv
vol
pol
csb
rue
mhr
glv
als
mri
kan
cym
nan
bjn
lit
udm
bod
nav
lmo
orm
sna
pan
asm
nds
aze
glg
map-bms
kbd
fry
lit
roa-tara
rup
egl
mlg
nrm
cat
mri
glk
srn
ksh
nav
als
dty
nav
nso
mkd
pam
be-tarask
tsn
xmf
swa
ton
vls
div
roa-tara
urd
war
cat
est
pol
epo
ton
cbk
ina
ton
asm
amh
ace
ara
vep
mar
lim
vie
hye
kan
als
isl
min
ell
swa
fin
nan
urd
tcy
bxr
fin
hun
hsb
lao
ceb
mdf
frp
nno
slk
krc
udm
hbs
kom
nds
vol
stq
vol
als
tet
dan
mal
lmo
wln
vep
roa-tara
olo
udm
myv
khm
xho
mdf
rus
pdc
pam
ell
sin
bcl
roh
lin
amh
tam
eng
jbo
sme
jav
ksh
khm
afr
oci
eng
vie
pan
hbs
dsb
bjn
map-bms
cos
bho
nds
bxr
mlg
bod
kbd
cos
hrv
ckb
rus
spa
gla
pam
lav
ceb
ind
lit
jbo
scn
pol
roa-tara
mai
ast
xmf
spa
slv
lim
rue
mon
cym
myv
uig
cos
lav
spa
als
gla
eus
zea
vie
aym
kom
mlt
cor
map-bms
asm
fur
sna
ksh
eus
lim
ile
kom
olo
hun
egl
nob
ibo
tsn
bul
nap
slv
lug
lmo
aze
mal
tet
zea
che
kom
spa
tet
oci
cdo
orm
tgl
arg
cat
nrm
nld
srn
fry
san
ori
zea
myv
fas
rup
ext
be-tarask
eng
slv
roa-tara
tet
mwl
ron
swe
nds-nl
bho
aze
kan
rup
kom
pus
mkd
por
jpn
dsb
glk
sco
hbs
hif
glk
ang
est
snd
bel
ell
tat
nds
che
ext
pfl
bpy
tet
mon
tam
tsn
gag
hye
amh
urd
urd
gla
afr
cor
slv
wln
bod
che
ang
cor
ceb
wln
lao
slv
nob
mar
cat
khm
snd
olo
ukr
udm
mwl
msa
roa-tara
que
grn
kor
lao
deu
ell
pus
che
san
mhr
mkd
lav
nds
mlg
ori
nno
koi
lao
slv
tur
cdo
cdo
mhr
xmf
jav
srp
bxr
oss
nav
sco
swe
mlg
spa
lat
lin
tsn
cym
bho
mlt
fra
hbs
swe
gla
tat
tgl
roh
kom
tat
gla
roh
spa
mwl
rup
fur
min
lim
sna
nrm
tcy
lin
kom
srn
lrc
spa
stq
jbo
orm
zea
lit
hat
lez
min
epo
ile
ast
war
hrv
pfl
snd
lrc
pam
che
nan
jav
als
lug
cdo
jav
mri
nob
bho
mya
cat
xho
bod
be-tarask
gag
ibo
glg
scn
mdf
oci
san
tyv
roh
jpn
tcy
ast
ind
roh
sin
mdf
afr
lin
sme
kat
als
pap
dan
fry
kor
afr
nso
pdc
hbs
rup
pcd
fin
hbs
mya
amh
ibo
pnb
que
hrv
mon
hbs
hat
mon
deu
gag
fas
nno
swe
jpn
hin
vie
tyv
urd
koi
zea
est
tel
sme
pag
kat
hye
tha
pfl
ron
mar
kom
tam
pus
pus
hrv
bho
glg
mhr
pap
bpy
zea
ext
frp
hun
udm
cdo
deu
vls
mhr
por
hbs
rus
vol
hat
frp
tha
ell
dsb
fao
pnb
ang
fra
tcy
tgl
krc
mri
hak
fao
lug
mar
guj
stq
srd
lit
bho
cym
oci
pol
swa
ina
bel
mhr
ckb
pfl
ext
nep
mwl
mhr
isl
mkd
cdo
jav
ile
deu
arg
ang
lit
kan
kom
ton
ava
ina
mai
tel
pcd
nan
pam
snd
lin
nld
nap
div
urd
nds-nl
cos
bre
ast
ces
mdf
cos
sme
cat
bod
deu
nav
jbo
rue
ang
tyv
fao
mkd
dty
mri
ceb
nno
lez
ibo
hsb
ace
eus
rue
gla
hun
mon
kan
pfl
dty
cdo
mkd
bod
hif
snd
ksh
aze
mdf
pus
aze
bul
grn
myv
slk
sme
dsb
lim
ile
ara
ell
guj
gag
afr
fry
khm
mwl
srd
kaz
lao
eus
tat
lrc
arg
nso
pus
eng
nno
kan
est
mhr
ibo
war
bjn
ara
che
cdo
yid
snd
ind
urd
tam
pfl
jbo
lao
als
sna
tam
mal
cor
fin
ksh
sqi
hsb
kat
roh
hun
lin
guj
roh
stq
sna
pfl
koi
glk
srn
srd
lav
ton
jpn
afr
ckb
orm
sgs
tam
cdo
kat
gla
map-bms
ron
lez
myv
mal
snd
gag
que
pag
bod
guj
vol
lat
mhr
war
por
fin
mon
bre
lez
vep
be-tarask
mri
ind
bho
nan
cbk
lav
eus
hak
mhr
roa-tara
rus
pcd
pus
hrv
tha
nds
div
msa
nds-nl
slk
gla
mlg
ron
deu
lat
hye
ace
udm
krc
hun
lat
bar
nep
pus
khm
kor
tcy
yid
csb
dsb
bel
krc
egl
bel
map-bms
bel
mar
kaz
nan
mri
oss
war
lim
srd
hif
kat
nds
min
ron
deu
aym
mon
mai
hin
crh
ckb
hin
ile
gle
roh
koi
vep
kat
oss
pfl
ceb
dan
fao
ina
lmo
pcd
rus
oci
eng
zea
pan
wln
arg
nan
nep
dsb
che
ang
lao
srp
mwl
nso
dsb
kom
che
glg
ara
yid
zea
tel
kor
pam
nob
que
urd
gle
vie
sgs
roh
jav
mal
cos
lim
mon
mon
fas
epo
mon
xmf
pcd
ckb
khm
tcy
msa
nan
tsn
sqi
srp
jpn
hun
hun
mri
ile
nan
nrm
vep
frp
xho
nob
ind
bre
pol
lat
rus
ukr
kan
ile
ell
scn
glv
ind
kaz
lat
nep
mdf
mlg
fin
ile
fas
jpn
bho
kan
fao
tha
che
udm
nav
tha
crh
hun
jpn
myv
csb
zea
nrm
glk
fin
snd
tam
ell
que
epo
srd
sco
mri
eus
sqi
hsb
mdf
tat
nav
nno
nds-nl
kor
stq
rus
pnb
frp
ibo
grn
glv
lit
pam
nds-nl
pap
kor
lez
bul
tet
ara
lrc
glk
tam
bjn
tat
mri
lat
mon
mri
eng
xmf
bre
lez
dsb
kin
be-tarask
por
que
bod
roh
cbk
frp
bre
fry
kbd
pnb
bjn
pcd
ile
que
deu
urd
bxr
vol
mkd
pag
ceb
por
uig
mdf
kat
kom
nob
srd
kan
mkd
por
be-tarask
ckb
que
ltg
ace
nds-nl
jbo
min
hrv
nep
xmf
slk
isl
tel
rue
ina
uig
kin
ibo
isl
oss
tet
mar
roh
ita
glg
tet
gla
dsb
min
pan
cat
lat
ckb
tel
ceb
snd
tha
kin
stq
pag
bjn
guj
koi
crh
hun
mlg
slk
pol
ton
fin
myv
grn
sco
ind
lim
pnb
stq
rus
xmf
pus
hsb
fin
gle
pap
tam
mkd
rup
vol
ibo
dan
koi
min
kan
cor
nav
vep
rup
por
nav
oss
ukr
tur
ckb
lad
hye
nld
frp
div
wln
krc
que
tam
que
tgl
dsb
scn
koi
gle
xho
gla
nep
ava
new
gle
lit
oss
mon
amh
bel
new
lit
mal
hun
kbd
afr
scn
ksh
mar
uig
hat
hrv
eus
orm
swa
orm
cos
bre
cym
nav
hsb
cdo
olo
ext
olo
mya
xmf
srp
olo
fra
lat
hun
csb
nrm
mon
kor
pam
snd
fry
bpy
dty
san
deu
jbo
bxr
cos
afr
ara
ltg
kom
sco
cdo
bod
wln
pus
lad
ava
ell
ori
msa
ace
ukr
pam
lmo
scn
bpy
tam
kat
mar
kbd
tam
kor
ceb
ori
gle
cat
map-bms
isl
ast
slv
dty
eng
lat
pan
gla
div
hif
aze
oci
msa
ron
ksh
ukr
lim
dan
isl
